---
title: 31. Beneath a Star-filled Sky
---

# Beneath a Star-filled Sky🎧❤

<div class="border p-6">
System guide

-- Alphinaud would rather not worry about what may or may not come to pass.

Alphinaud

-- There is naught to be gained from dwelling on an eventuality over which we have no control, much less one which may never even come to pass. Let us tend to more immediate matters─informing Commander Bloeidin of Titan's demise, for example. You may be certain that he will be glad of the news. Would you be so kind as to break it to him?

-- I expect the commander would enjoy hearing the tale of Titan's defeat from the woman responsible, don't you?

Bloeidin

-- Ah, you're a sight for sore eyes! When the others came back without you, I feared the worst, but they said you had matters well in hand.

-- All settled then, is it? I'm glad to hear it. But not half as glad as my men'll be, believe you me! Regardless of whether or not he was summoned properly, a primal's a primal. And there ain't a soul in the Maelstrom that hasn't lost a friend to one. Don't get me wrong, like─we were all prepared to do our part. But we weren't so naive as to think we'd live to tell the tale.

-- Thankfully, of course, it didn't come to that─which, my friend, sounds to me like cause for celebration! Now, I know you lot have places to be, but why not stay the night? We'd be honored to raise a glass to the triumphant return of Titan's Bane!
</div>

>> There is naught to be gained from dwelling on an eventuality over which we have no control, much less one which may never even come to pass.
>>
>
>> Let us tend to more immediate matters─informing Commander Bloeidin of Titan's demise, for example.
>>
>
>> Ah, you're <b class="text-red-500">a sight for sore eyes</b>!
>>
>
> a sight for sore eyes   令人愉悦的景象；美丽的事物
>
> * After a long day at work, seeing her smiling face was a sight for sore eyes. 工作了一整天后，看到她微笑的脸是一道令人愉悦的景象。
>
>> When the others came back without you, I feared the worst, but they said you <b class="text-red-500">had matters well in hand</b>.
>>
>
> have matter well in hand 就是把事情处理好的意思
>
>> Thankfully, of course, it didn't come to that─which, my friend, sounds to me like cause for celebration!
>>

<div class="border p-6">
Alisaie

-- Who goes there?

-- Oh, it's you. Forgive me for straying from the camp. He hasn't been feeling too welcome, to say the least. I thought a change of scenery might do him good, but, alas...

-- It's so quiet out here. The stars spread out before us, beckoning across time and space... "Dawn may banish even the darkest night.“ How bitterly beautiful, those words. I should be stronger for all my experiences, yet my heart aches more than ever.

-- I never understood why Grandfather gave his life that day. I thought that, if I came here, I would find the answers I needed. But when I finally laid eyes on the land he sacrificed everything to save, saw firsthand the bickering, the pettiness... I was disappointed. I was angry. I could not fathom how these people were more deserving of his love than his family...than me... But when Grandfather revealed the whole truth of the Calamity to us, I finally understood. And I resolved there and then to continue his legacy in my own way.

-- My travels have been enlightening, but I cannot say that I have enjoyed them. I have lost count of the many petty crises that I was helpless to resolve, and of the people whose actions I could not understand. There were others, of course. Good people. People with whom I felt a kinship...whose lives I could not save.

-- I found myself asking what it was all for. Why try if I was doomed to fail in the end? But then I recalled Grandfather's words to my father, years ago, before he left Sharlayan behind forever. "To ignore the plight of those one might conceivably save is not wisdom─it is indolence. We must all protect that which we hold most dear in the manner of our own choosing.“

-- ...We have to try, do we not? Of course, it's one thing to try and another to do. There were times while I was tracking the Warriors of Darkness when I faltered─when I was afraid. But then I thought of my brother, of Urianger, of you...

-- Ah, pray forgive me. This conversation has been rather one-sided, hasn't it. Mayhap you could recount some of your adventures in Ishgard?

Me

-- (Option 1) I traveled far and wide with two companions, Estinien and Ysayle, who were very...
-- (Option 2) Under some rather unique circumstances, I had the pleasure to fight alongside Ser Aymeric...
-- (Option 3) When Alphinaud and I came at last to the Dravanian hinterlands...

Alisaie

-- (In response to 1) Gods, they must have been at each other's throats from dawn till dusk...I daresay you managed to keep the peace, though. Merely being in the presence of the Warrior of Light is surely enough to shame anyone into behaving.
-- (In response to 2) He is quite a man, the lord commander. I shall have to thank him for his kindness. Truth be told, I was rather taken aback by it all. Given Ishgard's famous love of foreigners, I was half expecting the chirurgeons to berate me for bleeding. But I never heard an unkind word. Everyone there seemed relatively open and friendly, in fact─thanks in no small part to your tireless efforts, I suspect.
-- (In response to 3) We had no clear memories of our life in the hinterlands, having returned to the motherland as infants. Nevertheless, I am quite familiar with Master Matoya, as is every Sharlayan. I should like to speak with her someday. 'Twould not surprise me if Alphinaud's recent maturation was at least somewhat due to her sage guidance. I would never tell him this, of course, but there have been moments when I've caught myself thinking of him as an elder brother...

-- The hopes and dreams of so many rest on your shoulders, Warrior of Light. As long as the sun rises, we can but carry on. For the sake of those we hold dear.
</div>

>> The stars spread out before us, beckoning across time and space...
>>
>
>> But when I finally laid eyes on the land he sacrificed everything to save, saw firsthand the <b class="text-red-500">bickering</b>, the <b class="text-red-500">pettiness</b>...
>>
>
> bicker  .v. 争吵
>
> pettiness  .n. 琐碎；卑鄙；小气；微小
>
>> And I resolved there and then to continue his legacy in my own way.
>>
>
>> I have lost count of the many petty crises that I was helpless to resolve, and of the people whose actions I could not understand.
>>
>
>> There were times while I was tracking the Warriors of Darkness when I <b class="text-red-500">faltered</b>─when I was afraid.
>>
>
> falter  .v. 衰弱，衰退；结巴地说，支支吾吾地说；蹒跚，踉跄；犹豫，踌躇；

<div class="border p-6">
Msaked Man

-- To what end dost thou cling to the tainted gifts of the Mother?

Ardbert (Warrior of Darkness)

-- Every tool has its purpose. Even this.

-- Well, what is it?

Msaked Man

-- The seeds sown in Vylbrand have been plucked from the earth and left to wither. Alas, Titan's demise sufficed not to drive the kobolds to deepest desperation.

Ardbert (Warrior of Darkness)

-- What did the man in white have to say?

Msaked Man

-- That we are to proceed as he did first set forth.

Ardbert (Warrior of Darkness)

-- Well that's easy for him to say! It's not his bloody world on the brink of destruction, is it!?

Msaked Man

-- Be thou well reminded that with an end to Ishgard's unrest, naught now remaineth to preoccupy the Scions' thoughts. And thus may they devote their every energy to thwarting thee and thine. I foresee only greater difficulties ahead.

Ardbert (Warrior of Darkness)

-- Foresee? Are you sure you don't welcome them? I'm starting to think you might hold a candle for your old friends, after all...

Msaked Man

-- Pray do not mistake mine intent. I but look upon the path which lieth before us with due trepidation. Shouldst thou be of like mind, pray consider, then, another course, for the power to invoke the Ardor belongeth not unto the Ascians alone. With thine own hand, strike down thine enemy─the so-called hero who would see thy home lost to Light. Do but this and thou wouldst, at a single stroke, disrupt the all too delicate balance of this realm, plunging her straightways into chaos.

Ardbert (Warrior of Darkness)

-- You do realize what you're suggesting, yes?

Msaked Man

-- "To ignore the plight of those one might conceivably save is not wisdom─it is indolence.“ The words of my teacher, and a creed I hold close to my heart.

Ardbert (Warrior of Darkness)

-- Very well. Draw her out. We'll make it quick.

Msaked Man

-- It shall be done.

-- What good a creed one cannot uphold? What hurts soothed, what lives saved... O hapless fool, what hast thou wrought by thine own hands?

-- Minfilia, my friends─I shall not now beg your forgiveness. Full deeply though it paineth me to walk it, I shall not stray from my chosen path. As Moenbryda remained steadfast, so too shall I...
</div>

>> I'm starting to think you might hold a candle for your old friends, after all...
>>

<div class="border p-6">
Bloeidin

-- Ahh, I haven't slept that well in weeks!

Alphinaud

-- What ho, Luna. I trust you had a good night's rest? I was but this moment speaking with Thancred and Y'shtola via linkpearl. They had some interesting news to share. Apparently, during the course of their respective investigations, both came across crates which had once borne Ishgardian seals. 'Twould seem that someone in the capital has been very busy indeed. Accordingly, the Temple Knights have launched a full-scale investigation. Ser Aymeric believes that it is only a matter of time before the culprits are found, but we shall have to wait and see. In the meantime, it seems only prudent to look into the recent activities of the other tribes, in case they too are flush with Ishgardian crystals. And with that in mind, I suggest we pay Urianger another─Wait. Where is Alisaie? She was here a moment ago...with Ga Bu.

-- Would you be so kind as to look for my sister? She is doubtless somewhere in the camp, but... Well, I am sure you will find her.

Alisaie

-- Ah, let me guess: it's time to leave, isn't it? My apologies for disappearing again. If it is any consolation, I have already packed my things.

Alphinaud

-- ...How is he?

Alisaie

-- Brother. Commander Bloeidin. Something tells me you are not solely here out of concern for his welfare. But to answer your question, there has been no change. He will not speak or eat─I'm not even sure if he slept. If he did, he seems none the better for it. He just...shuffles about with that same expression on his face...

-- You will look after him, won't you, Commander─and treat him with every kindness? He's still in there. I know it. Beneath the anguish and the despair, he's still fighting with all his heart. He deserves to be given that chance. Until he comes back to us─until we know for certain what has become of him.

Bloeidin

-- Aye, aye, you needn't worry. If he hadn't risked his neck to warn us and help you secure the better part of the crystals, this could've turned out a damn sight worse than it did. We'll not soon forget that, and nor will Maelstrom Command.

Alisaie

-- I'm so sorry, Ga Bu. I truly am. You should never have been made to... And I know I cannot possibly understand... Mayhap there is nothing I can do or say. The pain, the anger...the helplessness... ...Hold fast to the memories of better times. Remember them as they were. And when it hurts so much your heart feels fit to burst, let it burst. Let it burst, and fill up again with your love for them. And never, ever forget.

Bloeidin

-- ...Come along, little one.

Ga Bu

-- I...I will remember them. And you, Alisaie. Thank you...

Alphinaud

-- Have faith, Sister. Your words have reached him. In time, he will recover...

-- And those who orchestrated these events will be made to answer for their crimes.

Alisaie

-- A thousand times over, aye. There will be a reckoning.

Bloeidin

-- Judgin' by what the little feller said, I doubt he's been corrupted. Sayin' that, we'll keep him close till we've heard a bit more─just to be on the safe side.
</div>

>> Apparently, during the course of their respective investigations, both came across crates which had once borne Ishgardian seals.
>>
>
>> In the meantime, it seems only prudent to <b class="text-red-500">look into</b> the recent activities of the other tribes, in case they too are flush with Ishgardian crystals.
>>
>
> look into  调查或询问：进行调查或询问。
>
> * The police promised to look into the matter. 警方承诺会调查此事。
>
>> And with that in mind, I suggest we pay Urianger another─
>>
>
>> If he did, he seems none the better for it.
>>
>
>> He just...shuffles about with that same expression on his face...
>>

<div class="border p-6">
Urianger

-- We have heard the glad tidings from O'Ghomoro, my friends. By the grace of the Twelve and your most valiant efforts, the people of Limsa Lominsa may rest easy.

Alphinaud

-- I should like to think so, yes. Though we failed to prevent the Lord of Crags from manifesting, we did succeed in weakening him, enabling our friend to dispatch him before the Warriors of Darkness could make matters worse. 'Twas by no means an unmitigated success, but it will have to suffice.

Urianger

-- Then let us speak of another matter─one which weigheth heavy on my lady's mind.

-- As thou didst request, I sought out The Gerun Oracles, that we might better understand the aims of the Warriors of Darkness. Though their copious use of allegory defieth any single interpretation, the oracles paint a most disturbing picture─one of worlds parallel to our own, apart yet linked, reduced to ruin with every Umbral Calamity...

Alphinaud

-- "Seven times have they succeeded.“ Then of ten and three, only six worlds remain.

Urianger

-- Aye. All is as my lady Minfilia spake unto thee.

-- As for what becometh of these reflections when they and the Source are rejoined...

"Frail flesh undone in Umbral fires,
Each soul surrend'reth to Her call,
To flow unto the endless sea,
There to endure as one and none.“

Alisaie

-- Then...then if the Warriors of Darkness succeed, everyone in their world will die?

Urianger

-- In essence, aye. The verse speaketh of the renunciation of the flesh, and subsequent return to the Lifestream. However, this fate may yet be preferable to the alternative, for if the First were to fall to transcendent Light in the manner the Warriors of Darkness described, it would give way unto a void wherein none may know either life or death. Far better to die, they reason─for in death there is life. The essence of a soul which returneth unto the Source may be born anew. Saved. Such, at least, is their belief, I surmise.

Alphinaud

-- If that is true, then... Gods. No one should ever have to make such a choice.

Urianger

-- ...Ere we speak further on this subject, I would share with thee another recent discovery. 'Twould seem that several sizable shipments of crystals have been delivered into the hands of certain Ala Mhigan parties.

Alphinaud

-- Ala Mhigans? Strange... And you believe this to be the work of the same Ishgardian smugglers who supplied the beast tribes?

Urianger

-- I know beyond a shadow of a doubt. And lest thou wonder at their motive, I would remind you that the Ascians did once attempt to bring about the summoning of Rhalgr. The individuals who took receipt of these shipments are refugees belonging to a group devoted to the cause of Ala Mhigan liberation. It may also interest thee to know that their Ishgardian suppliers appear to be none other than the remnants of Eline Roaille's network of spies.

Alphinaud

-- Surely you jest... And yet...it is not so surprising. Bereft of leadership and hunted by the Alliance, I can well imagine such villains being desperate enough to conspire with the Ascians. Assuming they even know─or care─who their new employers are. All of which is irrelevant. Forgive me. We must seek out the Resistance group which received the crystals without delay. Luna, Alisaie─will you come with me to Little Ala Mhigo?

Alisaie

-- Yes, of course. I should like to hear what they have to say for themselves. Firsthand.

Urianger

-- May you ever walk in the light of the Crystal.

Urianger

-- Pray proceed with all due caution. To what end these refugees covet crystals remaineth to be seen.
</div>

>> Though we failed to prevent the Lord of Crags from manifesting, we did succeed in weakening him, enabling our friend to dispatch him before the Warriors of Darkness could make matters worse.
>>
>
>> 'Twas by no means an <b class="text-red-500">unmitigated</b> success, but it will have to suffice.
>>
>
> unmitigated   .adj. 全然的；严厉的；未缓和的
>
>> Though their copious use of <b class="text-red-500">allegory</b> defieth any single interpretation, the oracles paint a most disturbing picture─one of worlds parallel to our own, apart yet linked, reduced to ruin with every Umbral Calamity...
>>
>
> allegory   .n. 寓言
>
>> The verse speaketh of the <b class="text-red-500">renunciation</b> of the flesh, and subsequent return to the Lifestream.
>>
>
> renunciation   .n. 放弃；脱离关系；拒绝承认；抛弃；弃权

<div class="border p-6">
Thancred

-- Alphinaud, Alisaie, Luna─are you three listening? Good. I have tidings. The Temple Knights raided the smugglers' warehouse less than an hour ago. A cursory interrogation of the prisoners yielded confirmation that they were in the employ of─and I hope you are sitting down─a man in black robes.

Alphinaud

-- Then you have them? And the crystals too?

Thancred

-- What few remained, aye. Regrettably, it would seem they dispatched one final shipment in the hours before we struck. 'Twas bound for Little Ala Mhigo, we are told, where it will be received by members of a local Resistance group. Since Ser Aymeric's men no longer have need of my services, I have a mind to head that way.

Alphinaud

-- As do we, by happy coincidence. We learned of the shipments but a few moments ago.

Thancred

-- Hah! And there I was thinking I might finally be one step ahead of the Warrior of Light and her little helpers. ...Ah! Wait a moment! There is more! And I defy you not to be surprised by this revelation. The leader of the Ishgardian smugglers was formerly in the employ of one Eline Roaille─the infamous Ivy herself!

Alphinaud

-- Once again, Thancred, I fear I must inform you that─

Alisaie

-- Thancred─with whom else have you shared this information?

Thancred

-- About the smugglers? No one. As I think I mentioned, the raid was less than an hour ago. I was planning to contact Y'shtola next, but is there someone else you would have me notify first?

Alisaie

-- No...there isn't.
</div>

>> The Temple Knights <b class="text-red-500">raided</b> the smugglers' warehouse less than an hour ago.
>>
>
> raid  .n. 突袭，袭击；突击检查，突然搜查；抢劫，打劫；（股票）恶意大量买进
>
>> And I defy you not to be surprised by this revelation.
>>

<div class="border p-6">
Alphinaud

-- What in the world has gotten into her? It is twice now that we have sought Urianger's aid, and twice she has treated him as if he were a stranger. The Archon was one of Grandfather's most dedicated pupils, and spent as much time at the Leveilleur estate as we did. He's practically a member of the family! Truth be told, I struggle to recall a day from my childhood when I did not see the three of them laughing together. If this continues, I may have to raise the matter. Later, though─Little Ala Mhigo awaits.

Alisaie

-- I will get to the bottom of this...

-- Oh, forgive me. I was... It has been a long day. Did you have something to say? Urianger? Oh, I... I've always struggled to understand what's going on in his head. Now more than ever. Listen, Luna─if anything should happen, it should be me who... Just know that I am prepared to do what must be done. Right, then. To more pressing matters. Since we have no idea when Thancred might arrive, I suggest we see what information we can gather in his absence.

-- Let us pray that someone will be willing to speak with us about the Resistance...

Alphinaud

-- Still no sign of Thancred...
</div>

>> What in the world has gotten into her?
>>
>
>> If this continues, I may have to raise the matter.
>>

<div class="border p-6">
Disinclined to dwell on the unpleasant question of Ga Bu's fate, Alphinaud bids you apprise the Maelstrom of your victory over Titan. Yet as pleased as Commander Bloeidin will be to hear the news, he will inevitably demand that a decision be made...

Commander Bloeidin is greatly relieved to hear that you have spared him the burden of sending good men to their deaths. In a show of gratitude, he invites you to stay the night and celebrate with the Maelstrom forces, and you accept─yet as the evening wears on, you become aware that Alisaie is nowhere to be seen. You find her outside the camp enjoying a moment of quiet solitude with Ga Bu, and after joining her, she tells you of her struggle to understand her grandfather's motivations and to find her own path having parted ways with her brother. The story of her journey seems more than a little familiar, as does the answer she found at the end of it: that in a world where high-minded ideals and earnest efforts all too often fall short, where the good suffer and the evil prosper, one must nevertheless aspire to a higher ideal. Her heart thus unburdened, Alisaie bids you share some tales of your time in the north, and you duly recount an adventure near and dear to your heart. Looking up into the starry night, you reflect on your own journey and what drives you to carry on...

In the morning, you find Alphinaud packed and ready to depart. He reveals that he has been in contact with Thancred and Y'shtola, both of whom have apparently discovered crates bearing defaced Ishgardian seals during the course of their investigations. Armed with this information, Alphinaud thinks it prudent to consult with Urianger once more, and is eager to take to the road. Alisaie, however, is nowhere to be found─and neither, you realize, is Ga Bu.

No child should be forced to confront death firsthand, much less that of a parent. Though she knows she can never truly understand the depths of his despair, Alisaie takes a moment to comfort Ga Bu one final time. Having given up hope of eliciting a response, she surrenders him into Commander Bloeidin's care, entreating him to show the young kobold every kindness. But in that instant, the child breaks his silence, thanking Alisaie for everything she has done. All is not lost─Ga Bu may one day recover from his trauma. With hope in your hearts, you set forth for Thanalan.

Back at the Waking Sands, Urianger shares his latest findings. Per Alisaie's request, he has studied The Gerun Oracles and discovered a passage which suggests that a Rejoining would result in the deaths of all those living upon a reflection of the Source. Yet in death there is seemingly life as their souls would then be returned to the Source, where they might be reborn anew. Drastic as it sounds, Urianger speculates this may yet be preferable to the alternative, for it is possible that a world which falls to transcendent Light or Dark may ultimately be transformed into an unfathomable void.

Even as you pause to contemplate the implications of these theories, Urianger reveals that the Ishgardian smugglers supplying the beast tribes with crystals have been identified as remnants of the criminal network established by Eline Roaille─the infamous Garlean spymaster, the Ivy. What is more, the group has recently supplied crystals to another party: refugees devoted to the cause of Ala Mhigan liberation. Wasting no time, Alphinaud bids you and Alisaie accompany him to Little Ala Mhigo to track down the shipment's recipients and find out what they intend.

As you round the corner and head for the exit, you and the twins are contacted via linkpearl by Thancred, who proudly informs you of the latest developments in Ishgard. When he subsequently hears that you have obtained the same information, however, his disappointment is palpable. A troubled Alisaie then confirms that the raid on the smugglers' hideout was conducted less than an hour before, and that only a select few should know the group's true identity, and the destination of their final shipment...

Alphinaud is unsure what to make of his sister's recent behavior towards Urianger, the two of them having always been quite close. As one of Louisoix's most dedicated pupils, Urianger was practically a member of the family. Yet her treatment of the Archon during your past several visits has suggested nothing of the sort. On the contrary, her words and actions seem to indicate a deep-seated suspicion. But why?

Having spent the journey to Little Ala Mhigo turning the mystery over and over in your mind, you press Alisaie for an explanation, but find her reluctant to say anything more than that she is prepared “to do what must be done.” Whatever has passed between her and Urianger remains unclear for now, but you sense it will not be long before the truth comes out─for better or for worse.
</div>

>> In a show of gratitude, he invites you to stay the night and celebrate with the Maelstrom forces, and you accept─yet as the evening wears on, you become aware that Alisaie is nowhere to be seen.
>>
>
>> The story of her journey seems more than a little familiar, as does the answer she found at the end of it: that in a world where high-minded ideals and earnest efforts all too often <b class="text-red-500">fall short</b>, where the good suffer and the evil prosper, one must nevertheless <b class="text-red-500">aspire</b> to a higher ideal.
>>
>
> fall short  未达到预期目标或期望：未能满足某种标准、要求或期望。
>
> aspire .v. 渴望，有志于
>
>> Her heart thus unburdened, Alisaie bids you share some tales of your time in the north, and you duly recount an adventure near and dear to your heart.
>>
>
>> Looking up into the <b class="text-red-500">starry</b> night, you reflect on your own journey and what drives you to carry on...
>>
>
> starry  .adj. 布满星星的；闪闪发光的，明亮的；像星星的，星状的；明星的，有关于明星的，明星特点的
>
>> Armed with this information, Alphinaud thinks it prudent to consult with Urianger once more, and is eager to take to the road.
>>
>
>> Having given up hope of <b class="text-red-500">eliciting</b> a response, she surrenders him into Commander Bloeidin's care, entreating him to show the young kobold every kindness.
>>
>
> elicit   .v. 引出，得到；<古>使（潜在的东西）显现，诱出
>
>> As you <b class="text-red-500">round the corner</b> and head for the exit, you and the twins are contacted via linkpearl by Thancred, who proudly informs you of the latest developments in Ishgard.
>>
>
> round the corner   即将到来，即将发生
>
> * The exam is just round the corner, so I need to start studying. 考试即将来临，所以我需要开始学习。
>
>> When he subsequently hears that you have obtained the same information, however, his disappointment is <b class="text-red-500">palpable</b>.
>>
>
> palpable  .adj. 明显的；可感知的；易觉察的
>
>> Yet her treatment of the Archon during your past several visits has suggested <b class="text-red-500">nothing of the sort</b>.
>>
>
> nothing of the sort  不是那样的：用于反驳某事或否认某事。
>
> * He claimed that I stole his wallet, but I told him it was nothing of the sort. 他声称我偷了他的钱包，但我告诉他完全不是那样的。
>
>> On the contrary, her words and actions seem to indicate a <b class="text-red-500">deep-seated</b> suspicion.
>>
>
> deep-seated   .adj. 深层的；根深蒂固的；深位的；由来已久的
>
>> Having spent the journey to Little Ala Mhigo turning the mystery over and over in your mind, you press Alisaie for an explanation, but find her reluctant to say anything more than that she is prepared “to do what must be done.”
>>

# When We Were Free🎧

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Alphinaud is eager to get to work.

Alphinaud

-- So, to review: we are reliably informed that members of the Ala Mhigan Resistance operating here have taken receipt of several large shipments of crystals, our task being to ascertain who and why. Given the size of the settlement, I find it hard to believe that anyone here could be wholly unaware of the Resistance's movements. The challenge, of course, will be finding individuals who are both able and willing to share such information with outsiders. It would seem sensible to divide our forces. Luna, why don't you question the residents in the eastern half of town? Alisaie and I will do the same in the west, and afterwards we can rendezvous here to share our findings.

Alisaie

-- As outsiders, we must be careful how we broach the subject, lest they grow suspicious of our intent.

Alphinaud

-- Have you finished already, Luna? If not, then we shall speak anon.

Sifrid

-- Ah, let me guess: come to join the fight, have you? No need to deny it, friend. You're not the first to answer the Griffin's call! While he's lit a fire in every Ala Mhigan's heart, he's also inspired more than a few Ul'dahns to pledge themselves to the cause. And little wonder─the Garleans won't stop until we're all under the yoke!

-- The Griffin's the leader we've been waiting for, mark my words! With his help, we'll finally take back our homeland!

Talebot

-- ...I see you there, goin' around askin' questions. Lookin' for the Griffin an' his lot, I'll bet. Seems they're the talk of Little Ala Mhigo these days. Folk wonderin' what he's about, what he's got in store for the Garleans─an' what's under that mask of his, of course. Some say he's hardly got a face, what with all the scars. Others reckon he's been marked for death by the Empire, an' that they'd send a bloody legion if they knew he was here. <snort> Your guess is as good as mine.

-- Ever wear a mask like that? They're bloody hot! He must have a pretty damn good reason for wearing one all the time. I'd sooner stay indoors.

Otelin

-- Eh? The Resistance? Damned if I know. It's not as if I'd be any use to 'em. <cough> <wheeze> If you set store by all these tales of secret weapons, good luck to you─but I'm too old for the Masks' bedtime stories. This is our lot, and it's time we got used to it.

-- Maybe...maybe if things were different...but they're not. I want to believe, I do, but...
</div>

>> Alisaie and I will do the same in the west, and afterwards we can rendezvous here to share our findings.
>>
>
>> While he's lit a fire in every Ala Mhigan's heart, he's also inspired more than a few Ul'dahns to pledge themselves to the cause.
>>
>
>> Others reckon he's been marked for death by the Empire, an' that they'd send a bloody <b class="text-red-500">legion</b> if they knew he was here. <snort> Your guess is as good as mine.
>>
>
> legion  .n. （古罗马）军团；众多；军队
>
>> If you <b class="text-red-500">set store by</b> all these tales of secret weapons, good luck to you─but I'm too old for the Masks' bedtime stories.
>>
>
> set store by  非常看重：相信某事非常必要或重要，高度重视。

<div class="border p-6">
Alisaie

-- Well, that was easier than expected. There's not a soul here who isn't eager to talk about our masked friends.

Alphinaud

-- I suppose I should ask what you learned, but I think I already know. ...This Griffin seems to be the leader of a newly formed faction within the Resistance. The Masks. Yet despite their growing popularity, no one seems to know much about them─only that they are the most aggressively militant group to join the movement in recent memory. Indeed, many claim their commitment to the cause of Ala Mhigan liberation is unrivaled. We can but hope their revolutionary fervor is never channeled in the direction of a primal. Though I feel confident that this is the group which received the crystal shipments, we yet lack proof. Before taking any action, I would speak with the settlement's leader to confirm my suspicions─and mayhap enlist his help while I am about it. Given that you and Gundobald are already acquainted, mayhap it would be best if you took the lead. Shall we?

Alisaie

-- To hear people speak of him, the Griffin sounds like a man in his middle years. But if that's the case, just what has he been playing at for the past two decades? If he's so devoted to the cause, why has he waited until now to do something about it? Unless, of course...he hasn't...

Alphinaud

-- Naught would please me more than to be wrong about all of this...

Gundobald

-- Much as it pleases me to see you again, Luna, I cannot help but wonder if I should be worried. I hear you and yours have been asking questions...The Griffin? Aye, I know of him, as do we all. He and his Masks have become a leading faction within the Resistance. Though there was suspicion at first given his secretive ways, he quickly proved himself a charismatic and capable commander. Men are drawn to his passion and his vision─they truly believe that he has what it takes to lead them to victory. Even I cannot help but admire the man for what he's accomplished. ...But I have not forgotten Wilred. I was blind to the danger of his ambitions...and you were not. The Griffin will soon deliver a speech to our people at the Sunken Temple of Qarn. Go and see him with your own eyes, weigh his words with your own heart.

Alphinaud

-- How convenient. 'Tis but a pity Thancred is not here to join us.

Alisaie

-- You two go on ahead. I shall stay behind and wait for him.

-- Whatever could be keeping him? If he's taken the scenic route, leaving us to do all the hard work, I shall treat him to a piece of my mind.

Gundobald

-- Men who can inspire such fervor in their followers are destined to shape the world. In what manner, however, is not always clear...until it is too late. The young ones were led astray once. Help us ensure that it never happens again. For their sake...and for Wilred's.

Alphinaud

-- Has it begun already? I hear voices coming from within...
</div>

>> Yet despite their growing popularity, no one seems to know much about them─only that they are the most aggressively <b class="text-red-500">militant</b> group to join the movement in recent memory.
>>
>
> militant  .adj. 好斗的，激进的
>
>> Though there was suspicion at first given his secretive ways, he quickly proved himself a <b class="text-red-500">charismatic</b> and capable commander.
>>
>
> charismatic  .adj. 有超凡魅力的；（基督教派）蒙受神恩的，有特恩的；（力量）神赐的，（能力）神授的
>
>> If he's <b class="text-red-500">taken the scenic route</b>, leaving us to do all the hard work, I shall treat him to <b class="text-red-500">a piece of my mind</b>.
>>
>
> take the scenic route 走风景优美的路线
>
> a piece of my mind   表达自己的不满或批评：表示对某人或某事的不满或批评，通常是直截了当地表达自己的想法和感受。
>
> * I gave him a piece of my mind for being so rude to me. 他对我如此无礼，我直截了当地表达了自己的不满。
>
>> Go and see him with your own eyes, weigh his words with your own heart.
>>

<div class="border p-6">
The Griffin

-- Brothers and sisters... Twenty years ago, Ala Mhigo, our home, was claimed by the Garlean Empire. In our haste to overthrow the King of Ruin, we turned a blind eye to our foes in the north. With our glorious revolution, we but laid a path for a new tyrant to succeed the old...and when confronted with our failure, we fled. Not a day goes by that I do not think of those we left behind─think of them, and feel ashamed. And I know each and every one of you feels the same.

-- We abandoned them, our own flesh and blood, to labor till their backs gave in and their breath gave out, building the twisted steel ramparts which now mar our once majestic mountains. We abandoned them, the brave and true, to fight and die for their country─or worse, to be conscripted and sent off to rob another poor bastard of his home. We abandoned them, the meek and powerless, to bow and scrape when the Garleans pass─to sully themselves that they might live to see another day of misery.

-- The Black Wolf may be dead, but a new imperial viceroy reigns in Ala Mhigo now. A beast not a fraction as merciful. You all know the Eorzean Alliance will do naught to oppose him. For all their promises and platitudes, they will not act if there's no profit in it. Only we can free our brothers and sisters from the Empire's tyranny, my friends! Only we have the courage to stand and fight!

-- They have imprisoned us, they have enslaved us, and they have murdered us─but no more! Blood demands blood, and the Garleans shall pay for every drop they have spilt upon our lands! This I promise you, for we have a power within us, my friends─a power befitting our pride, our righteousness! Only join us, and we shall grant you the means to unleash it, and together we shall see the Ala Mhigan standard raised over the mountains of Gyr Abania once more!

Alphinaud

-- "A power befitting their pride...“ Not at all ominous, that.

-- 	Wait. Is that─?

Yda

-- <gasp> What are you two doing here!?

Alphinaud

-- I could ask you the same thing!

Papalymo

-- Well, well, this is quite the surprise.

-- Might I suggest we continue this conversation in more...agreeable surroundings?

The Griffin (Background)

-- If you see what I see, if you feel as I feel, then I bid you join us! And those of you who cannot fight, fear not. For it is not strength of arms that will win this battle, but strength of heart!
</div>

>> In our haste to <b class="text-red-500">overthrow</b> the King of Ruin, we turned a blind eye to our foes in the north.
>>
>
> overthrow  .v. 推翻，打倒；背弃，摒弃（规则、观念或社会制度）；
>
>> We abandoned them, our own flesh and blood, to labor till their backs gave in and their breath gave out, building the twisted steel <b class="text-red-500">ramparts</b> which now mar our once majestic mountains.
>>
>
> rampart  .n. 壁垒；垒；防御土墙
>
>> We abandoned them, the brave and true, to fight and die for their country─or worse, to be <b class="text-red-500">conscripted</b> and sent off to rob another poor bastard of his home.
>>
>
> conscript  .v. 应征
>
>> We abandoned them, the meek and powerless, to bow and <b class="text-red-500">scrape</b> when the Garleans pass─to <b class="text-red-500">sully</b> themselves that they might live to see another day of misery.
>>
>
> scrape .v. （用小刀等）刮除；（使）刮擦；擦伤，刮坏；（使）发出刺耳的刮擦声；勉强维持，艰难地完成；
>
> sully  .v. 玷污；使丢脸
>
>> The Black Wolf may be dead, but a new imperial <b class="text-red-500">viceroy</b> reigns in Ala Mhigo now.
>>
>
> viceroy   .n. 总督；

<div class="border p-6">
Yda

-- Of all the places to meet! It has to be fate!

Papalymo

-- Mayhap it is my imagination, but you seem rather more rugged and world-weary than when last we spoke...

Alphinaud

-- Words cannot express how glad I am to see you both alive and well.

Yda

-- And you! Though it was pretty obvious you and Luna would be fine.

Papalymo

-- The Crystal Braves never had a realistic chance of capturing any of the Scions, divided as they were and distrusted by the better part of Eorzea.

Alphinaud

-- But if you truly believed that─ Forgive me. What exactly have you two been doing all this time?

Papalymo

-- ...Repaying a favor. After the banquet, we had no choice but to flee Ul'dah, and we would not have been able to do so without the aid of some old friends from the Resistance.

Yda

-- That's right. They smuggled us out of the city and sheltered us in Little Ala Mhigo, all at great risk to themselves. Obviously, we couldn't let that go unacknowledged, so we offered to help them out with their operations for a while.

Papalymo

-- When we learned of the Scions' exoneration─that Lolorito had severed all ties with the Crystal Braves, and that General Raubahn had been reinstated─we resolved to make contact. But having long since discarded our linkpearls as a precautionary measure, our options were rather limited. To make matters more complicated, we were embroiled in a delicate operation at the time, leaving me with little choice but to entrust a letter to a courier. I gather from your puzzled expressions, however, that you never received it.

Yda

-- To be honest, we thought this might happen. While the Masks are happy to let the refugees spread the word within the community, they're pretty strict about communicating with outsiders. Oh, and we also heard a rumor that the Griffin doesn't want us meddling in his affairs.

Alphinaud

-- The Griffin mistrusts the Scions of the Seventh Dawn? Curious. It is well known that we are no friends to Garlemald. One would think the man we saw beseeching all and sundry to join his cause would welcome our support.

Papalymo

-- Ah, I should say that the man you saw was not in fact the Griffin, but an impersonator. And a talented rabble-rouser, to boot. 'Twould not surprise me if he were responsible for the majority of these public appearances. As you may have gathered, the Griffin is an extremely cautious and distrusting man who has made every effort to conceal his identity. Even when we participated in a raid under his direct command, we were not permitted to approach him.

Yda

-- It's hard to know what to make of it all. The secrecy, the impersonators, the masks...

-- What!? It's not as if I'm making all of you wear one! And mine only covers half my face. It's completely different!

-- Anyway, when we heard the Griffin was due to give a speech, we thought it might be a good opportunity to get a better sense of the man behind the─uh, to get a better sense of the man.

Papalymo

-- ...For all the good it did. And now you have heard the whole of it. But tell me─what prompted you to take an interest in the Griffin?

Yda

-- Summoning!? You're not serious! I can't believe it...

Papalymo

-- The Resistance would never even entertain such a ridiculous plan, but the Griffin... Well, the man is an enigma. I cannot say with any confidence what he would or would not do. What I can say, however, is that the speech we heard today was not the first to make reference to a “power” capable of defeating the Empire. The Masks have made many such claims of late. I confess, I had assumed it to be mere bluster, but in the context of the shipments of which you spoke, it is not impossible that they are alluding to a primal.

Yda

-- Whatever it is, we'll find out together─and if anyone tries to stop us, they'll answer to me!

Papalymo

-- Indeed. That is...assuming you'll have us?

Alisaie

-- ...He hired a chocobo porter, didn't he? By the Twelve, was the aetheryte not to his liking? <sigh>

Alphinaud

-- In retrospect, their tale is not so surprising. We had reason to believe that they had escaped with the aid of Ala Mhigan refugees, after all. Still, Tataru will be delighted to hear we have been reunited─once we have attended to matters here, of course.

Yda

-- Do you honestly think he's planning to liberate Ala Mhigo with the help of a primal? I mean, could he really be that stupid!?
</div>

>> Mayhap it is my imagination, but you seem rather more <b class="text-red-500">rugged</b> and <b class="text-red-500">world-weary</b> than when last we spoke...
>>
>
> rugged  .adj.（男人的外貌）粗犷而英俊的；强健而坚毅的；
>
> world-weary  .adj.厌世的；讨厌人世的
>
>> They smuggled us out of the city and sheltered us in Little Ala Mhigo, all at great risk to themselves.
>>
>
>> Obviously, we couldn't let that go unacknowledged, so we offered to help them out with their operations for a while.
>>
>
>> When we learned of the Scions' exoneration─that Lolorito had severed all ties with the Crystal Braves, and that General Raubahn had been reinstated─we resolved to make contact.
>>
>
>> To make matters more complicated, we were <b class="text-red-500">embroiled</b> in a delicate operation at the time, leaving me with little choice but to entrust a letter to a <b class="text-red-500">courier</b>.
>>
>
> embroil  .v.  使卷入；使混乱
>
> courier  .n. 导游，旅游服务员；快递员，快递公司；（地下或间谍组织的）情报员
>
>> Oh, and we also heard a rumor that the Griffin doesn't want us <b class="text-red-500">meddling</b> in his affairs.
>>
>
> meddle  .v. 干涉，管闲事，干预他人之事；瞎搞，乱弄
>
>> One would think the man we saw beseeching <b class="text-red-500">all and sundry</b> to join his cause would welcome our support.
>>
>
> all and sundry   每个人：形容所有人都知道或参与了某件事情。
>
> * The news of their engagement spread quickly, and it was known to all and sundry. 他们订婚的消息迅速传开，每个人都知道。
>
>> Ah, I should say that the man you saw was not in fact the Griffin, but an <b class="text-red-500">impersonator</b>. And a talented <b class="text-red-500">rabble-rouser</b>, <b class="text-red-500">to boot</b>.
>>
>
> impersonator  .n. 模仿他人（或名人）的演员
>
> rabble-rouser  .n. 煽动者（暴动等的）
>
> to boot  再者；除此以外
>
>> It's hard to know what to make of it all. The secrecy, the impersonators, the masks...
>>
>
>> I confess, I had assumed it to be mere bluster, but in the context of the shipments of which you spoke, it is not impossible that they are <b class="text-red-500">alluding</b> to a primal.
>>
>
> allude  .v. 暗指，影射；略加提及；（艺术家，艺术品）使人想起（从前的作品或风格）

<div class="border p-6">
It is not exactly a well-kept secret that the Resistance has an established presence in Little Ala Mhigo. Even refugees who are not directly involved in the organization are likely to possess some information concerning its activities─or so Alphinaud would like to believe. Whether or not they will speak openly of such things to outsiders is, of course, a different matter. Nevertheless, unasked questions are wont to go unanswered.

Several of the residents make mention of a mysterious man named the Griffin, a revolutionary leader who always wears a mask in public. A charismatic figure, he seems to have inspired a good many of the refugees to rally to his standard, and there are even rumors that he and his Masks have a secret weapon they plan to use against the Garlean occupiers.

Alphinaud and Alisaie's inquiries yield similar information to yours, and after reviewing your collected findings, you conclude it is highly likely that the Masks are the group who received the shipment of crystals from Ishgard. This, combined with the fact that their passion for Ala Mhigan liberation borders on the fanatical, does lend credence to the theory that the revolutionaries are plotting to summon a primal. Even so, it would be unwise to act on such suspicions without first obtaining confirmation, and to that end, a conversation with Gundobald, the settlement's leader, would seem to be in order.

Though the fires of idealism often fade with age and experience, Gundobald admits that even he has found inspiration in the Griffin and his deeds. Yet he has not forgotten how Wilred and his friends were once led astray, and how all might have ended in still greater tragedy had you not intervened. Determined that his people should never again fall prey to the machinations of manipulative men, he bids you journey to the Sunken Temple of Qarn, where the Griffin is due to speak, and weigh the worth of his words for yourself.

The Griffin is every bit the silver-tongued speaker, painting a picture of a homeland abandoned and of a people forsaken. His words conjure feelings of guilt, yet also offer the promise of redemption─of bloody retribution, and of glorious freedom, won with a power residing in the hearts of the brave and true. Muttering darkly to himself, Alphinaud surveys the congregation...and catches sight of two very familiar faces: Yda and Papalymo! Though you have many questions, it is agreed that the temple is no place for lengthy discussions, and so you slip away while the crowd watches the Griffin in rapt attention.

Yda and Papalymo reveal that having parted ways with you after the fateful banquet, they slipped out of the city with the aid of some old friends from the Resistance. These goodly souls duly sheltered the two fugitives in Little Ala Mhigo at great personal risk, and so they deemed it only fair to remain for a time, assisting them in their operations to repay the favor. When Papalymo subsequently learned of the Scions' exoneration─that the Crystal Braves had been denounced and General Raubahn reinstated─he apparently attempted to reestablish contact. However, it seems likely that his missive was intercepted by the Masks, who are reluctant to allow word of their activities to spread beyond the refugee community. Their tale thus told, you proceed to brief the pair on your ongoing investigation into the missing crystal shipment. While shocked by the idea that the Masks may be planning to summon a primal, they observe that the Griffin and his men have claimed on more than one occasion to possess a means to defeat the Empire... Plainly, much and more remains to be established, but whatever the truth may be, you are sure to find it that much faster with the help of your long-lost allies.
</div>

>> <b class="text-red-500">It is not exactly a well-kept secret that</b> the <b class="text-red-500">Resistance has an established presence</b> in Little Ala Mhigo. Even refugees who are not directly involved in the organization are likely to possess some information concerning its activities─<b class="text-red-500">or so</b> Alphinaud would like to believe.
>>
>
> It is not exactly a well-kept secret that  已经不是秘密了
>
> Resistance has an established presence  反抗组织已经建立
>
> or so 至少
>
>> Nevertheless, unasked questions are wont to go unanswered.
>>
>
>> Several of the residents make mention of a mysterious man named the Griffin, a revolutionary leader who always wears a mask in public.
>>
>
>> A charismatic figure, he seems to have inspired a good many of the refugees to rally to his standard
>>
>
>> This, combined with the fact that their passion for Ala Mhigan liberation borders on the <b class="text-red-500">fanatical</b>, does lend credence to the theory that the revolutionaries are plotting to summon a primal.
>>
>
> fanatical  .adj. 狂热的
>
>> Even so, it would be unwise to act on such suspicions without first obtaining confirmation, and to that end, a conversation with Gundobald, the settlement's leader, would seem to be in order.
>>
>
>> Though the fires of idealism often fade with age and experience, Gundobald admits that even he has found inspiration in the Griffin and his deeds.
>>
>
>> The Griffin is every bit the silver-tongued speaker, painting a picture of a homeland abandoned and of a people forsaken.
>>
>
>> Though you have many questions, it is agreed that the temple is no place for lengthy discussions, and so you slip away while the crowd watches the Griffin in <b class="text-red-500">rapt attention</b>.
>>
>
> rapt attention  全神贯注：专注于某件事情，完全沉浸在其中的状态。
>
> * The children listened to the story with rapt attention. 孩子们全神贯注地听着故事。
>
>> When Papalymo subsequently learned of the Scions' exoneration─that the Crystal Braves had been denounced and General Raubahn reinstated─he apparently attempted to reestablish contact.
>>
>
>> However, it seems likely that his missive was <b class="text-red-500">intercepted</b> by the Masks, who are reluctant to allow word of their activities to spread beyond the refugee community.
>>
>
> intercept  .v. 拦截，阻截；

‍
