---
title: 34. Tidings from Gyr Abania
---

# Tidings from Gyr Abania🎧

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Tataru has a request for you.

Tataru

-- Ah, Luna, just the hero I wanted to see! Would you mind doing me a small favor? I need you to meet me at the Diamond Forge. This won't take long, I promise!

-- You're familiar with Rowena's House of Splendors, aren't you? Wait for me at the Diamond Forge and I'll be along shortly!

<hr class="w-80 h-1 bg-gray-200 my-4 mx-auto">

Tataru

-- I'm sorry to drag you away from your duties, but as I said, this won't take long! I just need you to stand perfectly still for a few moments...

-- Right, everyone! Ready to go to work?

-- No squirming now! Oh, and you might want to close your eyes...

-- There! All finished! The Warrior of Light's every measurement, from heroic head to intrepid toe! ...Well, wouldn't you like to know! All in good time, Luna! All in good time!

Yda

-- A-ha! Found you! Alphinaud wants everyone in the solar for a meeting. I don't know what it's about, but he seemed to think it was very important. Go on, we have everything we need. No sense in keeping everyone waiting!
</div>

>> No <b class="text-red-500">squirming</b> now
>>
>
> squirm  .v. 蠕动，扭动；羞愧，不舒服
>
>> The Warrior of Light's every measurement, from heroic head to <b class="text-red-500">intrepid</b> toe!
>>
>
> intrepid  .adj. 无畏的；勇敢的；勇猛的

<div class="border p-6">
Yda

-- We're here! Did we miss anything?

Alphinaud

-- We would not presume to begin without you, Yda. Urianger has returned to the Waking Sands, but everyone else is now present.

Alisaie

-- Yes, but for what, exactly? We all have duties to attend to, Alphinaud, so you may dispense with the preamble.

Alphinaud

-- Thank you, Alisaie. It is the very subject of those duties which compelled me to call this gathering. Though the Warriors of Darkness no longer pose a threat, Eorzea's many troubles demand no less of our attention. And while I stand by the decision to approach each task as we see fit, I fear our effectiveness will ultimately be diminished should we continue to act in ignorance of each other's efforts. Thus I propose we elect a successor to Minfilia─not to serve as a fully fledged Antecedent, perhaps, but as a coordinator of operations.

Alisaie

-- Is that all? Then the decision seems clear. No one else has shown any enthusiasm for the role. And judging by your performance at our previous meeting, you would seem the perfect candidate. You always did have a flair for politics.

Alphinaud

-- I-I did not mean to─ That was not my intention. As my tenure as commander of the Crystal Braves comprehensively demonstrated, I lack the qualities required for such an office. I would much prefer to remain as I am now─a soldier in the field, so to speak.

Y'shtola

-- Should none of our number step forward, must we then constrain some unwilling candidate to take up the position?

Thancred

-- Well, based on merit alone, a certain adventurer would be my choice─though I concede she might struggle to balance her new responsibilities with, let me see...slaying primals, thwarting legatuses, and feeding the orphaned poor.

Papalymo

-- Thancred makes a good point. Any who would wear such a mantle would be bound by its obligations. Have we not become sufficiently familiar with each other's methods to act without an overseer? At present, I see no cause to so willingly limit one of our number.

Tataru

-- Oh! Oh, my goodness! You're─ Help! I need some help here!

Alphinaud

-- Tataru! Are you all right!?

Tataru

-- Me!? I'm fine! It's this poor girl who just staggered in and collapsed on the floor that I'm worried about!

Yda

-- Naago!? Gods, how did─ Y'shtola, please, you have to help her!

Y'shtola

-- Krile, a hand if you would. Let us see about closing these wounds.

-- Now, we've staunched the bleeding, but it may be a while before you can move about again. Though, having seen your wounds, I'm surprised you were still moving at all...

M'naago

-- Thank you... My message... It was too important to delay. I took the shortest route I could, though I knew it was more heavily patrolled... As you can see, my efforts at evasion were not entirely successful.

Yda

-- Honestly, you're too brave for your own good! What was so urgent that you needed to fight half the Empire to get here? You could have been killed!

M'naago

-- I'm sorry, Yda. I had good reason... Ah, but I imagine your friends are wondering who this bloody mess of a Miqo'te is. My name is M'naago, and I belong to the Ala Mhigan Resistance. I came to warn Yda and Papalymo about one of our leaders─a man who calls himself the Griffin. He's always been dangerous, but he's planning something new...something reckless.

Thancred

-- The Griffin, you say? I've heard the name. Rumor has it, your man is eager to test his claws.

M'naago

-- Aye, and on no easy target. He means to assault Baelsar's Wall from the Ala Mhigan side.

Papalymo

-- But what does the Griffin possibly hope to gain from such an attack?

M'naago

-- From what I understand, he wants the fires of war to spread to Eorzea. And for that, he needs to control the border with Gridania.

Alphinaud

-- ...So he means to spark a conflict between the Alliance and the imperial forces stationed in Ala Mhigo─to have Eorzea's armies aid in the liberation effort, whether they will it or no.

Papalymo

-- His plan is flawed. Even should the Resistance succeed in occupying the Wall, they would not be able to hold it. Imperial reinforcements would drive them out within a week!

Krile

-- Be that as it may, if there is even a chance that this scheme could bring about an escalation in hostilities between Eorzea and the Empire, the Alliance must be informed.

Y'shtola

-- Agreed. I shall depart for Limsa Lominsa forthwith and seek an audience with the Admiral. Thancred─Ul'dah is yours.

-- Alphinaud and Alisaie─make haste to the Twelveswood, and notify the Elder Seedseer of the danger to Gridania. She will duly call a council of the Alliance leaders, whom you must be ready to receive.

-- You will be our voice in Ishgard. Explain the situation to Ser Aymeric, and encourage him to send an envoy.

-- Tataru, Krile─I leave the care of our injured messenger to you. See that she remains quiescent and her wounds closed.

-- I believe that covers everything. Let us be about our tasks.

<hr class="w-80 h-1 bg-gray-200 my-4 mx-auto">

I suspect the ill tidings from Gyr Abania will be held as a turning point─the beginning to a bloody end.
The business of war was ever conducted with the coin of self-sacrifice.
'Twas Master Louisoix himself who taught us that such costs are not to be ignored or denied.
And so I shall embrace them. When the time comes, I will make my choice─as you will yours.
</div>

>> We all have duties to attend to, Alphinaud, so you may <b class="text-red-500">dispense with</b> the <b class="text-red-500">preamble</b>.
>>
>
> dispense with  无需；免除；省掉
>
> preamble   .n.（法规、契约的）序言，绪论；前言，开场白
>
>> And while I <b class="text-red-500">stand by</b> the decision to approach each task as we see fit, I fear our effectiveness will ultimately be diminished should we continue to act in ignorance of each other's efforts.
>>
>
> stand by  支持
>
> approach 有处理的意思
>
>> As my <b class="text-red-500">tenure</b> as commander of the Crystal Braves comprehensively demonstrated, I lack the qualities required for such an office.
>>
>
> tenure   .n.（尤指重要政治职务的）任期，任职
>
>> so to speak
>>
>
> 可以说；打个譬喻说
>
>> Should none of our number step forward, must we then constrain some unwilling candidate to take up the position?
>>
>
>> It's this poor girl who just <b class="text-red-500">staggered</b> in and collapsed on the floor that I'm worried about!
>>
>
> stagger   .v. 摇摇晃晃地走，蹒跚；使震惊，使大吃一惊；使交错，使错开
>
>> Now, we've staunched the bleeding, but it may be a while before you can move about again.
>>
>
>> As you can see, my efforts at <b class="text-red-500">evasion</b> were not entirely successful.
>>
>
> evasion  .n. 逃脱，躲避；逃避手段，逃避方法；遁词，借口
>
>> She will duly call a <b class="text-red-500">council</b> of the Alliance leaders, whom you must be ready to receive.
>>
>
> council   .n. 会议；（教会的）集会
>
>> See that she remains <b class="text-red-500">quiescent</b> and her wounds closed.
>>
>
> quiescent  .adj. 静止的；不活动的；沉寂的

<div class="border p-6">
Yda

-- I hate leaving Naago like this, but I know Krile and Tataru will take good care of her...

Papalymo

-- After conferring with Y'shtola, we have decided to focus our attentions on the East Shroud. Someone needs to keep an eye on the border, not to mention the sylphs.

Fyrbryda

-- Your measurements were rather larger than I expected. And no, I shan't tell you which ones.

Eginolf

-- If Rowena has the gaze of a dead-eyed serpent, then Tataru's stare is alike to a raptor what's sighted prey. Each is bloody terrifyin' in her own way.
</div>

>> After <b class="text-red-500">conferring with</b> Y'shtola, we have decided to focus our attentions on the East Shroud.
>>
>
> confer with   与……商议；与……磋商；与……协商
>
> * I need to confer with my team before making a decision. 在做决定之前，我需要与我的团队商议。
>
>> If Rowena has the gaze of a dead-eyed serpent, then Tataru's stare is alike to a <b class="text-red-500">raptor</b> what's sighted prey.
>>
>
> raptor .n. 猛禽；肉食鸟

<div class="border p-6">
Lucia

-- Greetings, Warrior of Light. What business brings you to Ishgard?

-- ...I see. Wait here. I will summon Ser Aymeric.

Aymeric

-- It is good to see you, my friend. 'Tis but a pity it must be under such circumstances. Had Lucia not informed me of the urgency of your suit, I would certainly have sent for some wine. But to business. I thank you for bringing these developments in Ala Mhigo to our attention. Ishgard will of course send an envoy to attend the council in Gridania.

-- I cannot say who will represent us, however, as the choice is not mine to make─not mine alone, at any rate. Given the imminence of the threat, we may forgo the formalities of a full assembly, but I will still need to consult my counterpart in the House of Commons prior to proceeding. Will you permit me some time to make the necessary arrangements?

-- I thank you.

-- Our representative, whomever we select, will require a suitable escort. Make your preparations, and inform Ser Handeloup that he is to lead in your absence.

Lucia

-- Yes, Lord Commander.

Aymeric

-- Luna─pray accompany Lucia to the Gates of Judgement and make ready to depart for Gridania. I will have our envoy join you as soon as I can. Fury speed you on your way.
</div>

>> Given the imminence of the threat, we may forgo the formalities of a full assembly, but I will still need to consult my counterpart in the House of Commons prior to proceeding.
>>

<div class="border p-6">
Tataru asks that you meet her at the Diamond Forge within Rowena's House of Splendors. Though she neglects to explain the nature of her business there, she assures you it will not take long...

After being ambushed by the Diamond Forge artisans and their measuring tapes, you are called to attend a meeting with your fellow Scions at the Rising Stones. There, you discuss the future of the organization, only to be interrupted by the arrival of M'naago, a member of the Ala Mhigan Resistance. Between pained gasps, the wounded woman reports that one of the Resistance leaders─a masked man known as the Griffin─has embarked upon a course which will inevitably drag the Eorzean Alliance into conflict with the Empire. Hearing this, Y'shtola bids you bear word of the looming threat to Ishgard while she and the others notify the rest of the Alliance leaders. You resolve to bring the matter before Lucia at the Temple Knights' headquarters.

Lucia dutifully communicates the Scions' concerns to Ser Aymeric, and the lord commander soon agrees to send an envoy to the Alliance council. The nature of Ishgard's politics, however, requires that he first consult with his counterpart in the House of Commons to decide who will serve as the nation's representative. For the moment, there is little you can do but wait for the decision to be made...
</div>

>> Between pained gasps, the wounded woman reports that one of the Resistance leaders─a masked man known as the Griffin─has embarked upon a course which will inevitably drag the Eorzean Alliance into conflict with the Empire.
>>
>
>> Hearing this, Y'shtola bids you bear word of the looming threat to Ishgard while she and the others notify the rest of the Alliance leaders.
>>
>
>> Lucia dutifully communicates the Scions' concerns to Ser Aymeric, and the lord commander soon agrees to send an envoy to the Alliance council.
>>

# An Envoy for Ishgard

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Lucia seems eager to set forth for Gridania.

Handeloup

-- Retaking our place in the Eorzean Alliance is a vital step in reforging our bonds with the wider realm. The Temple Knights stand ready to honor the promise our nation has made.

Lucia

-- If you have no other business in the city, join me at the Gates of Judgement. We must be ready to depart the instant the envoy arrives.、

Lucia

-- You are perhaps wondering who will represent Ishgard at the council? As this is a military matter, I should not be surprised if Ser Aymeric nominated himself. He is yet lord commander of the Temple Knights, after all.

Aymeric

-- We meet again. As it happens, my counterpart in the House of Commons agreed that I should act as Ishgard's envoy. ...Not, I concede, that there was ever any real doubt. As lord commander of the Temple Knights, it is my duty to sanction any military cooperation.

-- Be that as it may, I could not in good conscience make the decision alone─not with the ink scarce dry in the republic's book of statutes.

-- I trust you understand, my friend. Alas, I must test your patience still further by making a brief stop at Camp Dragonhead. Given the trouble brewing in the Black Shroud, I would see that the garrison is ready to defend the border.

Lucia

-- I am glad that Ser Aymeric's counterpart saw the wisdom in his coming. Few if any in Ishgard can claim to possess his expertise in both politics and warfare.
</div>

>> If you have no other business in the city, join me at the Gates of Judgement. We must be ready to depart the instant the envoy arrives.
>>
>
>> Be that as it may, I could not in good conscience make the decision alone─not with the ink scarce dry in the republic's book of statutes.
>>
>
>> Given the trouble <b class="text-red-500">brewing</b> in the Black Shroud, I would see that the garrison is ready to defend the border.
>>
>
> brew  .v.  酝酿，即将来临

<div class="border p-6">
Aymeric

-- The garrison commander waits within. Why not accompany me, Luna? You may see a familiar face...

Emmanellain

-- Luna, old girl!? How wonderful to see you! And Ser Aymeric, too! To what do I owe these unexpected pleasures?

Honoroit

-- I will have some mulled wine brought up from the kitchens at once! If you will excuse─

Aymeric

-- Nay, do not trouble yourself, Honoroit─we shall soon be on our way. Lucia, a brief summary, if you will.

Lucia

-- Yes, Lord Commander.

Emmanellain

-- Hmph. Those villains hardly need an excuse to wage war. Bloodletting comes as naturally as breathing to a Garl─I-I mean, to an imperial.

Honoroit

-- ...And thus we shall strengthen our patrols as you suggest. We shall also be sure to communicate these developments to Lord Francel and the Observatorium.

Aymeric

-- I see you have everything in hand. Carry on, Commander.

Emmanellain

-- Surprised to see yours truly at the helm? You and me both, old girl. I doubt I'll ever feel worthy to sit where he sat... Yet we can but play the hand we're dealt. And with a little help from the veterans─and Honoroit's ceaseless chiding─I'm sure I'll muddle through. So worry not, old girl! Off to Gridania with you!

-- I shan't waste my time attempting to replace him. I can but be my best self and hope that that's enough!

Honoroit

-- I shall do my utmost to see that my lord is not overwhelmed by his duties. He can be surprisingly diligent when he puts his mind to it. If he puts his mind to it...
</div>

>> <b class="text-red-500">Bloodletting</b> comes as naturally as breathing to a Garl─I-I mean, to an imperial.
>>
>
> bloodletting  .n. 杀戮；放血疗法；血洗；内讧；裁员；（同组织内两队之间发生的）互不相让的激烈争吵
>
>> Surprised to see yours truly <b class="text-red-500">at the helm</b>?
>>
>
> helm 舵；舵柄；领导地位；驾驶盘
>
> at the helm 掌舵；掌管；
>
>> Yet we can but <b class="text-red-500">play the hand we're dealt</b>.
>>
>
> play the hand one is dealt 习语，指的是利用好自己的资源做好自己的事。有尽力而为的意思，但是比尽力而为要积极一点。
>
>> And with a little help from the veterans─and Honoroit's ceaseless <b class="text-red-500">chiding</b>─I'm sure I'll <b class="text-red-500">muddle through</b>.
>>
>
> chide  .v. 责骂；斥责
>
> muddle through   勉强应付：在没有太多计划或努力的情况下取得一定程度的成功。
>
> * We didn't have a clear plan, but we managed to muddle through the project. 我们没有一个清晰的计划，但我们设法勉强应付这个项目。
>
>> He can be surprisingly <b class="text-red-500">diligent</b> when he puts his mind to it.
>>
>
> diligent  .adj. 勤奋的，勤勉的；细致的，潜心的
>
> put mind to 专心于

<div class="border p-6">
Serpent Honor Guard

-- I bid welcome to our visitors from Ishgard!

Lucia

-- It seems so peaceful... One would scarce believe that Baelsar's Wall─and wretched Ala Mhigo─lie but a few short malms away.

Aymeric

-- Diplomatic duties have brought me here on several occasions, but I find that I am as enraptured by the Black Shroud's beauty now as when first I laid eyes upon it. I fear that this time, however, events shall not afford us the luxury of enjoying the splendor of the forest...
</div>

>> Diplomatic duties have brought me here on several occasions, but I find that I am as <b class="text-red-500">enraptured</b> by the Black Shroud's beauty now as when first I laid eyes upon it.
>>
>
> enrapture  .v. 使狂喜；使着迷

<div class="border p-6">
Lucia bids you join her outside the city to await the coming of Ishgard's envoy, whoever he or she may be. Make your way to the Gates of Judgement.

Your wait comes to an end with the arrival of Ser Aymeric. As lord commander, it seems his appointment as the nation's representative was a foregone conclusion. After bemoaning the unavoidably tedious workings of government, he asks that you delay your journey to Gridania once more to make a brief stop at Camp Dragonhead.

You find Ser Aymeric and Lucia at Camp Dragonhead, who invite you to meet the newly appointed garrison commander. Much to your surprise, you discover that it is none other than Ser Emmanellain─ably abetted by the rather more practically minded Honoroit. After leaving instructions to strengthen Coerthas' defenses, Ser Aymeric departs for the council. Travel to the Black Shroud, and rendezvous with the lord commander in New Gridania.

Ser Aymeric fondly recalls his previous visits to the forest nation, and regrets that circumstances preclude a more leisurely appreciation of Gridania's beauty. The Alliance council will soon commence...
</div>

>> Your wait comes to an end with the arrival of Ser Aymeric.
>>
>
>> As lord commander, it seems his appointment as the nation's representative was a foregone conclusion.
>>
>
>> After bemoaning the unavoidably tedious workings of government, he asks that you delay your journey to Gridania once more to make a brief stop at Camp Dragonhead.
>>
>
>> Much to your surprise, you discover that it is none other than Ser Emmanellain─<b class="text-red-500">ably</b> abetted by the rather more practically minded Honoroit.
>>
>
> ably  .adv. 巧妙地；精明能干地
>
>> Ser Aymeric fondly recalls his previous visits to the forest nation, and regrets that circumstances <b class="text-red-500">preclude</b> a more leisurely appreciation of Gridania's beauty.
>>
>
> preclude  .v. <正式>阻止，妨碍

# An Allied Decision🎧

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Ser Aymeric is ready to attend the council.

Aymeric

-- It seems we are to have an escort to the Lotus Stand. A pleasant place to discuss unpleasant matters, is it not?

-- Yes, of course. 'Tis like that we are the last to arrive. Let us announce ourselves, shall we?

Silent Conjurer

-- The envoy from Ishgard is arrived? Very good. This way, if you pl─ Ah, and the Lominsan party, as well.

Merlwyb

-- I had hoped to slip in unnoticed, but I see I was not the only one delayed in my arrival. Greetings, Ser Aymeric.

Aymeric

-- Admiral, always a pleasure.

Merlwyb

-- And Luna, I trust you are well? 'Tis a day for reunions, it seems. I believe you are well acquainted with my escort?

Yugiri

-- Lady Luna. I was glad to hear from Riol that the missing Scions have now been found.

Merlwyb

-- There is much and more I would discuss with you, but let us first attend to the issue at hand. Shall we?
</div>

>> I had hoped to <b class="text-red-500">slip in</b> unnoticed, but I see I was not the only one delayed in my arrival. Greetings, Ser Aymeric.
>>
>
> slip in 悄悄进入：不被注意地进入某个地方。

‍

<div class="border p-6">
Kan-E-Senna

-- I bid you welcome, my friends. As you will by now be aware, the Scions of the Seventh Dawn have come into possession of certain intelligence concerning recent developments in the region of Gyr Abania. It springs, I am assured, from an unimpeachable source─is that not so, Master Alphinaud?

Alphinaud

-- Indeed, Elder Seedseer. Our information comes directly from a member of the Resistance's inner circle, and we have no cause to doubt its veracity.

Raubahn

-- This “Griffin” of theirs is a fool if he thinks he can hold Baelsar's Wall against the Empire. When the imperials move to take it back, they will come in force─and the resulting fighting is all but certain to spill over into the Black Shroud...

Kan-E-Senna

-- At the Battle of Carteneau, the combined might of three Grand Companies labored to contend with the remnants of but a single imperial legion. Alone, Gridania would be hard-pressed indeed to hold back the tide should the Garleans turn their minds from reclamation to invasion.

Aymeric

-- May I once more convey my nation's deepest regrets for our inaction in the days prior to the Calamity. 'Tis a stain upon our ledger that I would fain remove. Elder Seedseer─I do hereby request leave to deploy a defensive force within the borders of Gridania. Ishgard's return to the Alliance shall be honored by more than mere ink upon parchment.

Yugiri

-- The Doman people, too, would join any effort that weakens our common foe. We are few, but our most seasoned shinobi are at your disposal.

Kan-E-Senna

-- On behalf of my people, I offer you my humble thanks. Gridania welcomes your assistance.

Raubahn

-- It is time we set our contingency plans in motion. Is the Alliance agreed? Then let us make ready for war. Victory favors the swift, and there is much to be done.

<hr class="w-80 h-1 bg-gray-200 my-4 mx-auto">

Alisaie

-- The council knows that Ala Mhigo will not soon be wrested from the Empire, and its decision to bolster the border's defenses seems eminently practical. Why, then, Brother, do you scowl so?

Alphianud

-- I agree that they have chosen the wisest course available. Indeed, the only reasonable one. Yet something feels awry. In making ready for war, is the Alliance not granting the Griffin the very thing he desired? Any attempt to hold the Wall is doomed to failure, aye, but I wonder if we have misjudged the prize for which he plays...
</div>

>> As you will by now be aware, the Scions of the Seventh Dawn have come into possession of certain intelligence concerning recent developments in the region of Gyr Abania.
>>
>
>> It springs from an unimpeachable source─is that not so, Master Alphinaud?
>>
>
>> Indeed, Elder Seedseer. Our information comes directly from a member of the Resistance's <b class="text-red-500">inner circle</b>, and we have no cause to doubt its <b class="text-red-500">veracity</b>.
>>
>
> inner circle  内部圈子，指领导政府或组织的一小群人，或者是接近领导者的人
>
> * The CEO's inner circle is responsible for making important decisions. CEO的内部圈子负责做出重要决策。
>
> veracity  .n. 真实，准确；诚实，老实
>
>> 'Tis a stain upon our ledger that I would fain remove.
>>
>
>> Ishgard's return to the Alliance shall be honored by more than mere ink upon parchment.
>>

<div class="border p-6">
Alphinaud

-- ...That the council was able to reach an accord so swiftly is a heartening development in itself. I only hope my misgivings prove unfounded...

Aymeric

-- Ah, good, you have yet to depart. I feared I had missed you.

Alphinaud

-- Ser Aymeric!

Aymeric

-- Master Alphinaud, a pleasure as always. And Mistress Alisaie, how wonderful to see you thus recovered. Pardon the interruption. I had hoped to thank Luna for serving as our escort before other duties called her away.

-- I also wished to thank our Doman ally...

Yugiri

-- Forgive me, my lord. I was but awaiting an opportune moment to join the conversation, and force of habit made me keep to the shadows.

Aymeric

-- No apologies are necessary, Mistress Yugiri. I was most grateful for your interjection when I offered Ishgard's support. My nation's historic failure to heed the Alliance's pleas for aid is a matter of record. Even so, the Alliance leaders were plainly unprepared for my impromptu apology. The resulting air of awkwardness might have lingered longer were it not for your timely offer of cooperation, which allowed the Elder Seedseer to accept us both. I very much appreciated the gesture.

Yugiri

-- I only did my duty, Ser Aymeric. The Empire is an enemy to us all, and we are grateful for the opportunity to fight at your side.

Aymeric

-- And full glad are we to have you. Pray convey my regards to the Scions, my friends. We must return to Ishgard.

Alisaie

-- Whatever is wrong with a simple “sorry” or “thank you”? Must these politicians always make a speech out of everything?

Alphinaud

-- That is how we adults speak, dear sister.

Alisaie

-- Hmph. Mayhap the ones who like the sound of their own voice. In any case, our business here is concluded. We should be on our way as well.

-- Will you accompany us to Revenant's Toll, Yugiri?

Alphinaud

-- Actually, I think I shall first pay a brief visit to the East Shroud. I am curious to know how Papalymo and Yda fared in their talks with the sylphs, not to mention what has been going on at Baelsar's Wall. I will join you at the Rising Stones anon.

Yugiri

-- Even now, I am astonished by how closely Mistress Alisaie resembles Master Alphinaud. Their very mannerisms are alike. From a distance, I should be hard-pressed to tell one from the other─until they opened their mouths, of course...

Alisaie

-- Welcome back, Luna. I don't know about you, but I am heartily glad that all of the talking is over. I understand that these council meetings are important, but do you not find it tiresome to have to weigh every word before you speak it? I doubt I will ever feel at home in the realm of politics.

-- That said, people have been known to change. And if my brother is willing to run his own errands, anything is possible.
</div>

>> ...That the council was able to reach an accord so swiftly is a heartening development in itself.
>>
>
>> I was but awaiting an opportune moment to join the conversation, and force of habit made me keep to the shadows.
>>
>
>> Even so, the Alliance leaders were plainly unprepared for my <b class="text-red-500">impromptu</b> apology.
>>
>
> impromptu  .adj. 即兴的，即席的
>
>> Their very <b class="text-red-500">mannerisms</b> are alike.
>>
>
> mannerism  .n. 特殊习惯；矫揉造作；怪癖
>
>> I don't know about you, but I am heartily glad that all of the talking is over.
>>
>
>> I understand that these council meetings are important, but do you not find it tiresome to have to weigh every word before you speak it?
>>
>
>> I doubt I will ever feel at home in the realm of politics.
>>

<div class="border p-6">
With the council due to begin at any moment, Ser Aymeric bids you announce your arrival. As ever, the silent conjurer stands ready to admit you to the Lotus Stand.

After weighing the possible consequences of the Griffin's reckless scheme, the council members agree that the Gridanian border must be preemptively reinforced. With war now a distinct possibility, the mood is grim as the Alliance leaders disperse to make their preparations. Look for Alphinaud outside the Lotus Stand, and trouble him for his opinion on this latest development.

As you mull over the council's decision with Alphinaud and Alisaie, Ser Aymeric approaches and thanks you for escorting him to Gridania. Before departing, he also takes a moment to express his gratitude for Yugiri's support during the meeting, though she is customarily quick to downplay her contribution. With your business in Gridania now at an end, it is time to return to the Rising Stones.

Back in Revenant's Toll, you encounter Alisaie, who is quick to express her distaste for the carefully chosen words of politicians. You are about to comment on how different she and her brother are in this respect, when she remarks on how different Alphinaud seems from his former self, having apparently taken to running his own errands. How times have changed.
</div>

>> As ever, the silent conjurer stands ready to admit you to the Lotus Stand.
>>
>
>> After weighing the possible consequences of the Griffin's reckless scheme, the council members agree that the Gridanian border must be preemptively reinforced.
>>
>
>> As you <b class="text-red-500">mull over</b> the council's decision with Alphinaud and Alisaie, Ser Aymeric approaches and thanks you for escorting him to Gridania.
>>
>
> mull over  深思熟虑、仔细考虑或反复思考某事物
>
> * I need some time to mull over your proposal before making a decision. 在做出决定之前，我需要一些时间来深思熟虑你的提议。
>
>> Before departing, he also takes a moment to express his gratitude for Yugiri's support during the meeting, though she is customarily quick to downplay her contribution.
>>
>
>> Back in Revenant's Toll, you encounter Alisaie, who is quick to express her distaste for the carefully chosen words of politicians.
>>
>
>> You are about to comment on how different she and her brother are in this respect, when she remarks on how different Alphinaud seems from his former self, having apparently taken to running his own errands.
>>

# Griffin, Griffin on the Wall🎧😭

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Alisaie seems eager to discuss the council's decision with the other Scions.

Alisaie

-- Well, as much as I enjoy the bustle of the Toll, I think it's time we headed inside. My brother and the others will not be long.

Y'shtola

-- Ah, you are returned from the council. But what of Alphinaud? Did some other matter require his attention?

Alphinaud

-- Mine apologies, friends. I trust we have not kept you waiting overlong.

Yda

-- Greetings, everyone! Oh, Krile─how's Naago doing? She will be all right, won't she?

Krile

-- I don't see why not. She's sleeping at the moment. Tataru is keeping an eye on her, so we'll know soon enough if there's any change in her condition.

Y'shtola

-- Her wounds are healing well. With sufficient rest, I am certain she will make a full recovery.

Yda

-- Thank goodness for that. Now, mayhap you would share with us the council's decision?

Alisaie

-- Each of the nations, Ishgard included, has committed to providing military support to Gridania. The Eorzean Alliance will soon have a significant force in the Black Shroud, ready to respond to any imperial act of aggression.

Yda

-- You know, I almost wish the council would stop messing around and give the Griffin what he wants. I wouldn't like to be the imperial caught between the Resistance and the Alliance!

Papalymo

-- Yda, you cannot seriously─ One does not lightly go to war with the Garlean Empire.

Alphinaud

-- Quite. To open hostilities without due consideration would be to invite disaster. <sigh> If only there were some way to reach the Griffin─some means to convince him to abandon this reckless course...

Papalymo

-- It may not be entirely unfeasible. There is a network of tunnels beneath Baelsar's Wall─secret passages dug by the Resistance to provide a way out of Ala Mhigo.

Yda

-- ...Which may equally serve as a way in?

Papalymo

-- Precisely. If all are in agreement, I would be the one to undertake the necessary negotiations. I am familiar with the route, and the Resistance is familiar with me.

Yda

-- About as familiar as they are with me, you mean? Say what you want─I'm coming too!

Yugiri

-- I have some experience in the practice of infiltration. If you would have me, my services are at your disposal.

Thancred

-- As are mine. It has been far too long since I shared a shadow with a shinobi, and I do not intend to waste the opportunity.

Y'shtola

-- Four is quite sufficient for an infiltration mission. Greater numbers will only serve to increase the risk of detection. Krile and I will direct our energies elsewhere. What of you Leveilleurs?

Alphinaud

-- I will return to the East Shroud, and stand watch over the border. Should matters take a turn for the worse, 'twould seem wise to be on hand.

-- Might I prevail upon you to accompany me, Luna? Gridania will be safer for your presence. And...while it may not seem the most thrilling duty, dear sister, might I ask that you remain at the Rising Stones to pass on messages and so on?

Alisaie

-- To hold the fort, you mean. ...Very well. I suppose the task must fall to someone.

-- Safe travels, all of you.

<hr class="w-80 h-1 bg-gray-200 my-4 mx-auto">

Yda

-- All I'm saying is that it wouldn't be the worst thing if we ended up joining the Griffin's fight against the Empire. I mean, it's going to happen sooner or later, isn't it?

Papalymo

-- ...I may perhaps have exaggerated my standing with the Resistance a little. But I am confident that I have a reasonable chance of putting a stop to this madness before events spiral out of control. Yes, fair-to-middling at the very least...

Alisaie

-- I suspect Tataru would have little trouble facilitating communication between our forces under normal circumstances. But I concede she has her hands full nursing that Resistance fighter back to health. No matter: my turn in the field will come.

Yugiri

-- My fellow shinobi required little encouragement to take their place amongst the Alliance forces massing in Gridania. They are most eager to cross blades with the armies of Garlemald once more.

Thancred

-- I am no ninja, but I did spend some few moons in the Sharlayan homeland learning how to move unseen. Between Yugiri and my humble self, Yda and Papalymo will be well protected.

Alphinaud

-- If you have any unfinished business in the Toll, pray attend to it now. I would depart for the Hawthorne Hut without delay. The nearby watchtower offers an unobstructed view of Baelsar's Wall, and I should be interested to speak to the Alliance commanders who have installed themselves at its top.
</div>

>> Well, as much as I enjoy the <b class="text-red-500">bustle</b> of the Toll, I think it's time we headed inside.
>>
>
> bustle  .n. 喧闹，繁忙；
>
>> You know, I almost wish the council would stop <b class="text-red-500">messing around</b> and give the Griffin what he wants.
>>
>
> mess around 浪费时间；胡闹；瞎搞：不认真对待某事，浪费时间或胡闹。
>
>> Should matters take a turn for the worse, 'twould seem wise to be on hand.
>>
>
>> Might I prevail upon you to accompany me, Luna?
>>
>
>> To <b class="text-red-500">hold the fort</b>, you mean. ...Very well.
>>
>
> hold the fort  坚守阵地：在某人不在的情况下承担或负责某事，或者维持一个安全的位置。
>
> * While the manager is away, I will hold the fort and ensure everything runs smoothly. 经理不在的时候，我会坚守阵地，确保一切顺利进行。
>
>> But I am confident that I have a reasonable chance of putting a stop to this madness before events <b class="text-red-500">spiral</b> out of control.
>>
>
> spiral   .v. 螺旋式上升（或下降），盘旋上升（或下降）；持续下降，持续恶化；急剧上升
>
>> Yes, <b class="text-red-500">fair-to-middling</b> at the very least...
>>
>
> fair-to-middling  一般般：只是平均水平，不是特别好。
>
> * The performance of the team was fair to middling, not outstanding. 团队的表现一般般，不算出色。
>
>> The nearby watchtower offers an <b class="text-red-500">unobstructed</b> view of Baelsar's Wall, and I should be interested to speak to the Alliance commanders who have installed themselves at its top.
>>
>
> unobstructed  .adj. 没有障碍的；畅通无阻的

<div class="border p-6">
Alphinaud

-- Ah, Luna, there you are. Come, Amarissaix's Spire awaits. The Alliance officers on the platform should be able to apprise us of any developments at the Wall.

Thancred

-- Fancy meeting the two of you here. We were about to set forth.

Alphinaud

-- Indeed. I was about to say, “Twelve watch over you,” but I doubt you have need of divine protection, even if you are venturing into enemy territory...

Yda

-- Don't worry, Alphinaud─we'll have the Griffin by the scruff of the neck before you know it!

Papalymo

-- Do make up your mind, Yda. Nary a moment ago, you seemed ready to shake the Griffin by the hand rather than the neck. So, which is it to be? 'Twould be best to decide before we enter into negotiations.

Yda

-- Trust me, Papalymo: I'll shake whatever needs shaking. The talking part I leave to you!

Papalymo

-- ...I think I feel a headache coming on. Let's be on our way, shall we?

Alphinaud

-- Ah, some things never change... Well then, shall we make for the spire? Our Alliance friends will doubtless have news for us.

<hr class="w-80 h-1 bg-gray-200 my-4 mx-auto">

Serpent Scout

-- Welcome, Warrior of Light. I assume you are here to speak with our commanding officers? You will find them on the observation platform. Pray proceed.

Pipin

-- Greetings, my friends. 'Tis good to see you both well.

Hilda

-- I was hopin' you might turn up. I've dragged half the watch here, see, and the sight of you might help remind 'em why we bothered.

R'ashaht Rhiki

-- If memory serves, I have not seen many of you since the day of the grand melee. Having borne the brunt of your blows, may I say what an honor it is to stand at your side!

Alphinaud

-- 'Tis heartening indeed to see the realm's most stalwart defenders thus gathered in common cause. Speaking of which─what news from the Wall?

Vorsaile Heuloix

-- All has been quiet.

-- Report! What? Seven hells... Fighting has broken out on top of the Wall! A full-scale assault!

Pipin

-- So the Griffin has made his move.

Vorsaile

-- Someone has...

Hilda

-- And what's that s'posed to mean?

Vorsaile

-- The attackers, they─ They're wearing Grand Company colors.

Rashaht

-- Impossible. We gave no such order.

Alphinaud

-- Of course... The Wall was never the Griffin's target─it was bait. We have been goaded into deploying our armies nearby, thus lending weight to this deception!

Vorsaile

-- If those uniforms were convincing enough to deceive my scouts, the Empire will surely think we've launched an offensive. This could mean war!

Alphinaud

-- Even so...this may yet be no more than a diversion. With the armies of the Alliance occupying the Empire's attention, it would be comparatively easy for the Griffin's supporters to slip into Ala Mhigo. He could then incite a rebellion amongst the populace which the imperial reserves would be hard-pressed to contain. Eorzea, meanwhile, would be plunged into chaos.

-- Luna, we must make for the Wall at once.

Pipin

-- What, just the two of you!?

Alphinaud

-- Our companions embarked on a mission to sway the Griffin from his course, and are likely halfway to his command post by now. They will emerge in the midst of a raging battle and I do not mean to abandon them to their fate. It will be dangerous, aye, but the confusion may work to our advantage. If we are careful to avoid the skirmishing, it may yet be possible to reach the Griffin...and if we can do that...

Pipin

-- Lady Hilda─might I ask that you have an airship ready to bear the Scions to safety?

Hilda

-- Ha! I don't know who this Lady Hilda is, Marshal, but you can count on me.

Rashaht

-- We must prepare for imperial reprisals. May the Navigator guide us through the storm!
</div>

>> Don't worry, Alphinaud─we'll have the Griffin by the <b class="text-red-500">scruff</b> of the neck before you know it!
>>
>
> scruff  .n. 颈背；后颈
>
>> Do make up your mind, Yda. Nary a moment ago, you seemed ready to shake the Griffin by the hand rather than the neck.
>>
>
>> If memory serves, I have not seen many of you since the day of the grand melee.
>>
>
>> Having borne the <b class="text-red-500">brunt</b> of your blows, may I say what an honor it is to stand at your side!
>>
>
> brunt   .n. 冲击；主要冲力
>
>> We have been <b class="text-red-500">goaded</b> into deploying our armies nearby, thus lending weight to this deception!
>>
>
> goad  .v. 刺激；激励；用刺棒驱赶；煽动
>
>> Even so...this may yet be no more than a <b class="text-red-500">diversion</b>.
>>
>
> diversion  .n. 转向，转移；绕行路，支路；转移注意力的事物，分心的事物；消遣，娱乐

<div class="border p-6">
The Griffin

-- Forward, comrades! The time has come to drive the Empire from Ala Mhigo, and force action upon those who have turned their backs to our suffering for so long! Let this victory be the first step in the liberation of our homeland! Ala Mhigo will be free─no matter the cost.

Serpent Scout

-- Milady! As per Marshal Tarupin's orders, we will provide a feint to cover your advance. May the Crystal light your way forward!

Alphinaud

-- From what Papalymo told me, the trail ahead should lead us into the shadow of the Wall. As we have two objectives, I suggest we divide our forces. I shall make straightways for the tunnels, and attempt to intercept our comrades ere they stumble into a bloodbath. While I do so...I must ask that you scale the Wall. Know that I would not propose such a course if there were any other way. But the time for subtlety is past. Take a band of your most trusted companions and cut a path through to the Griffin. Make him see reason─by any means necessary. Once we are free of the tunnels, we will make for your position with all due haste. And if everything proceeds according to plan, Hilda will then swoop in and spirit us all away to safety. I only pray that we have enough time.
</div>

>> I shall make straightways for the tunnels, and attempt to <b class="text-red-500">intercept</b> our comrades ere they stumble into a bloodbath.
>>
>
> intercept  .v. 拦截，阻截；抄截（对方的传球）；截断，中止（光等电磁辐射）；
>
>> I must ask that you <b class="text-red-500">scale</b> the Wall.
>>
>
> scale 有攀登的意思
>
>> But the time for <b class="text-red-500">subtlety</b> is past.
>>
>
> subtlety  .n. 细微差别，微妙之处；微妙，精细；机敏，敏锐；诡秘，狡猾，巧妙
>
>> Once we are free of the tunnels, we will make for your position with all due haste.
>>
>
>> As per Marshal Tarupin's orders, we will provide a <b class="text-red-500">feint</b> to cover your advance.
>>
>
> feint  .n. 佯攻；伪装；假动作

<div class="border p-6">
Baelsar's Wall (Dungeon)

Marking the border between the Black Shroud and Gyr Abania, the legacy of Gaius van Baelsar is a towering monument to imperial tyranny. And now smoke rises from its iron crenellations.

In a bid to drag the armies of Eorzea into the struggle for Ala Mhigan liberation, the Griffin and his Resistance fighters have disguised themselves in Grand Company uniforms and laid siege to Baelsar's Wall. While Alphinaud seeks to call your companions back from their now-meaningless mission of diplomacy, you must ascend the war-torn fortification by the swiftest route possible and persuade the Griffin─by force, if necessary─to abandon his reckless ambition.
</div>

>> And now smoke rises from its iron <b class="text-red-500">crenellations</b>.
>>
>
> crenellations  .n. 锯齿状物；开垛口

<div class="border p-6">
Ilberd

-- 	<pant> <pant> You've beaten me, aye... But you cannot stop what I've begun. Behold─a glimpse of things to come!

Storm Soldier

-- We did it! We showed the bastards!

Serpent Solider

-- Aye! Victory is ours!

Flame Soldier

-- And who knows, lads? Mayhap the Eorzeans'll finally see sense...when the enemy turns up on their bloody doorstep!

Laurentius

-- This is for Ala Mhigo... For Eorzea... They die, that others may live...

-- Vanguards! Attack!

Flame Soldier

-- Seven hells, d'ye hear that?

Serpent Solider

-- War machines... How did they get here so quickly!?

Storm Soldier

-- S-Stand your ground! For the Resistance!

Flame Soldier

-- There's nowhere to run! We're cut off!

Storm Soldier

-- Gods help us... What were we thinking? The Empire's too big... Too powerful... Mighty Rhalgr... Grant us...the strength...to crush...our...

Papalymo

-- There you are!

Alphinaud

-- As you can see, our infiltrators did not elude me for long. Lady Yugiri is sending for an airship even as we speak.

Yda

-- What do we do!? This is a massacre!

Ilberd

-- Heh heh heh heh... How wonderful to see you...Commander.

Alphinaud

-- Ilberd! I should have known...

-- This has to end! It has to end now! Do you not see your countrymen dying? Have your ideals rendered you blind even to that!? Order the retreat, and we will help your soldiers to safety!

Ilberd

-- Retreat? With the moment of my triumph so close at hand? You truly are a sheltered child, Leveilleur.

Alphinaud

-- Nidhogg's eyes! ...No abyss is too deep for you, I see. But trust me when I say that such power was not meant for mortal hands!

Ilberd

-- How long have I struggled to reach this point! My countrymen so inured to the taste of defeat, they no longer balk at its bitterness. Shouting my throat raw with rallying cries, only to be greeted with dull eyes and blank faces! My “brothers” and “sisters” in Ul'dah have surrendered to their apathy and their appetites. Were it not for the glint of Lolorito's coin, I doubt even those here now would have answered my call! "Take back our homeland! Free Ala Mhigo!“ Hah! They'll happily mouth the words, but they won't spill the blood!

-- You say no mortal should wield these eyes? Then I shall gladly become a demon! I will suckle on the souls of the hopeless, and liberate the homeland they no longer deserve!

Alphinaud

-- What exactly do you mean to do...?

Ilberd

-- Did you hear their cries as victory was snatched away from them? Even with their dying breaths they cursed the Empire! Never has their desire for vengeance been so raw, so true! A god has no need of faith when summoned by so pure a purpose!

Papalymo

-- Summoned!?

Alphinaud

-- You cannot mean to fight the Empire with a primal! You know full well the danger─the futility of relying on such power!

Ilberd

-- Oh, yes, I know their limitations─which is why I will call upon a deity more terrible than the very black wyrm of the Calamity itself!

Papalymo

-- What... Here!? Now!?

Yda

-- Like hells you will!

Ilbred

-- An ending to mark a new beginning... My pain! My longing! You shall have it all!

-- Hahaha─aaaaaaargh!

Alphinaud

-- 	This light, is it...

Papalymo

-- His death completed the ritual. The primal is taking shape.

Yda

-- Well, can't we stop it!? There must be something we can do!

Papalymo

-- There is...one thing.

Yda

-- Wha─? Hey! Where do you think you're going!?

Papalymo

-- Master Louisoix briefly contained Bahamut by means of a potent spell of sealing. I will now attempt to do the same.

Alphinaud

-- But that's impossible! We would need hours to collect the necessary aether, i-if not days!

Papalymo

-- Ah, Alphinaud... Though I concede it may not always be apparent, I was ever your grandsire's finest pupil.

Alphinaud

-- Tupsimati, of course! The staff still holds enormous power, broken or not.

Yda

-- Don't you dare, Papalymo! I know how that spell works!

Yugiri

-- It is time to leave!

Papalymo

-- Quite right! Quickly, now! Off you go! The further away the better!

Yda

-- No! If you're staying, then so am I!

Papalymo

-- No, Yda! There is a path only you can walk, and it must not end here─not like this!

-- Take her! Please, you have to take her!

Yda

-- Wha─ No! Damn it, Thancred! Put me down! Thancred!

Papalymo

-- This is one battle you cannot fight. Away with you. Go!

Me

-- (Trust in Papalymo and leave on the airship.)

Thancred

-- Hilda! I think he means now!

Papalymo

-- I bid thee farewell again, my dear Yda... Now, let us see how good a student I truly was...
</div>

>> Mayhap the Eorzeans'll finally <b class="text-red-500">see sense</b>...when the enemy turns up on their bloody doorstep!
>>
>
> see sense 明白道理：理解或领悟到某事的真实含义或正确观点。
>
> * After listening to her explanation, he finally saw sense and agreed with her. 听了她的解释后，他终于明白了道理并同意了她的观点。
>
> doorstep  .n. 门槛。这里这句话的意思，就是Eoezean终会明白，当敌人出现在家门口的时候
>
>> My countrymen so <b class="text-red-500">inured</b> to the taste of defeat, they no longer balk at its bitterness.
>>
>
> inure .v. 使……习惯；使……适应
>
>> Shouting my throat raw with rallying cries, only to be greeted with dull eyes and blank faces!
>>
>
> rallying cries   鼓舞士气的口号：在战斗前或战斗中，由一群战士喊出的单词、短语或声音，用于鼓舞士气或激励行动。也可以指某种口号、事件或事情，用于激励人们支持某种事业或行动。
>
> * The coach's speech served as a rallying cry for the team before the big game. 教练的演讲成为了比赛前团队的鼓舞士气的口号。
>
>> My “brothers” and “sisters” in Ul'dah have surrendered to their apathy and their <b class="text-red-500">appetites</b>.
>>
>
> appetite  .n. 食欲，胃口；欲望，爱好
>
>> Were it not for the <b class="text-red-500">glint</b> of Lolorito's coin, I doubt even those here now would have answered my call!
>>
>
> glint   .n. 闪烁；闪光，微光；（眼神中的）光亮
>
>> I will <b class="text-red-500">suckle</b> on the souls of the hopeless, and liberate the homeland they no longer deserve!
>>
>
> suckle  .v. 给……哺乳；吮吸；养育
>
>> Did you hear their cries as victory was <b class="text-red-500">snatched away</b> from them?
>>
>
> snatch   .v. 一把抓住，立马夺下；夺去，抢走；抓住机会做（某事）；侥幸获得（胜利），险胜
>
> snatch away  抢走：用力夺取某物，通常是突然和迅速地。

<div class="border p-6">
Alphinaud

-- How many more must we lose...?

Hilda

-- Every Ishgardian gets taught that the Sea of Clouds churns in the grip of the warrin' elements of water and wind. Enough to tear you apart, they say. No one's ever gone to the bottom of the abyss and lived to tell the tale. So how did that bastard manage to get his hands on Nidhogg's eyes?

Thancred

-- Papalymo knew what he was doing. I could not refuse him.

Yugiri

-- I understand only too well the desire to reclaim one's homeland...but I cannot condone such slaughter.

Pipin

-- It has been explained to me what that light represents, and I have ordered our forces to stand ready. It seems we can do little else but wait...

Yda

-- Why...?

-- Why didn't they let me stay!? Papalymo is my friend! I should have been there with him!

Thancred

-- You could see it in his eyes, Yda. He knew what he was doing─what had to be done. Master Louisoix wore that same look, right before the end...

Yda

-- Do you think I don't know that!? I know, all right! I know.

Thancred

-- There is nothing more you could have done. Ilberd caught us all off guard. Even Luna was powerless to stop him. If you must blame someone, then blame me. Just promise that you will never forget what Papalymo strove to protect, or the lessons he tried to teach you.

Yda

-- ...Don't. Don't speak to me.

Thancred

-- Leave Yda with me. Go on. Go back to the Rising Stones. The others need to know what happened here.

Yda

-- ...It's over, Papalymo. It's all over...

Thancred

-- Leave her be. Nothing you can say will console her now...
</div>

>> Every Ishgardian gets taught that the Sea of Clouds churns <b class="text-red-500">in the grip of</b> the warrin' elements of water and wind.
>>
>
> in the grip of   被……所控制/压倒：被某种不利因素或情况所控制或压倒。
>
> * The country is in the grip of a severe economic crisis.  这个国家正处于严重的经济危机之中。

<div class="border p-6">
Having apparently had her fill of the hustle and bustle of the town square, Alisaie declares her intention to retire inside to await the return of her brother and the others. Join her in the Rising Stones.

Shortly after Alphinaud's arrival, a meeting is convened to discuss the outcome of the council. Hoping to convince the Griffin to abandon his course before war engulfs the realm, it is decided that Papalymo, Yda, Thancred, and Yugiri will brave the secret tunnels beneath Baelsar's Wall, and endeavor to confront the Resistance leader directly. You, meanwhile, are to stand ready in the Black Shroud for whatever eventuality may arise. Notify Alphinaud when you have made the necessary preparations.

Alphinaud urges you to conclude any business you have in Revenant's Toll, and meet him at the Hawthorne Hut in the East Shroud.

Outside the Hawthorne Hut, you bid the infiltration team good fortune on their mission. After they depart, Alphinaud mentions that Amarissaix's Spire offers a clear view of the Wall, and suggests that you speak with the Alliance commanders who have gathered atop the lookout platform. Identify yourself to the serpent scout at the foot of the tower.

It would seem that fighting has broken out on Baelsar's Wall. Scouts report that the Griffin has begun his assault, his soldiers apparently clad in Grand Company uniforms... Plainly, the Resistance leader will stop at nothing to drag the Alliance into his conflict. To make matters worse, your fellow Scions are headed into the eye of this storm, wholly unaware of what awaits them on the surface... Despite the danger, Alphinaud resolves to plunge into the thick of the battle in an attempt to save the day. You have little choice but to join your young friend at the approach to the Wall.

Alphinaud outlines a simple plan wherein he will pursue the infiltration team through the tunnels while you scale the fortifications with a party of your most trusted comrades. You must reach the top of the Wall and force the Griffin to withdraw before the unthinkable happens!

You have overpowered the Griffin. See events to their conclusion before making your escape from the top of the Wall.

Beneath the mask, the Griffin is revealed to be none other than Ilberd, the disgraced captain of the Crystal Braves. Following his “defeat,” the Resistance leader enacts his true plan─a ritual to summon a nightmarish primal empowered by Ala Mhigan desperation and the might of Nidhogg's eyes. Fearing a disaster to rival the Calamity itself, Papalymo steps forward with Tupsimati, and grimly begins to weave a forbidden magick of confinement... You barely have time to escape on Hilda's airship before the incantation swallows Papalymo and encases the newborn entity in a vast cocoon of light.

Stunned by the unexpected summoning and the loss of her dearest friend, Yda's irrepressible spirit seems to have been broken at last. Offer her what comfort you may.

You attempt to speak with Yda, but there seems to be nothing you can say that will pierce the shroud of her grief. Thancred offers to watch over her whilst you and the others return to the Rising Stones with the tidings of Papalymo's demise.
</div>

>> Having apparently had her fill of the <b class="text-red-500">hustle and bustle</b> of the town square, Alisaie declares her intention to retire inside to await the return of her brother and the others.
>>
>
> hustle and bustle  繁忙和喧嚣：用来描述忙碌的城市生活或拥挤的场所，表示充满活力和忙碌的氛围。
>
> * I love the hustle and bustle of the city. 我喜欢城市的繁忙和喧嚣。
>
>> Hoping to convince the Griffin to abandon his course before war engulfs the realm, it is decided that Papalymo, Yda, Thancred, and Yugiri will brave the secret tunnels beneath Baelsar's Wall, and endeavor to confront the Resistance leader directly.
>>
>
>> Plainly, the Resistance leader will stop at nothing to drag the Alliance into his conflict.
>>
>
>> To make matters worse, your fellow Scions are headed into the eye of this storm, wholly unaware of what awaits them on the surface...
>>
>
>> Alphinaud outlines a simple plan wherein he will pursue the infiltration team through the tunnels while you scale the fortifications with a party of your most trusted comrades.
>>
>
>> See events to their conclusion before making your escape from the top of the Wall.
>>
>
>> Following his “defeat,” the Resistance leader enacts his true plan─a ritual to summon a <b class="text-red-500">nightmarish</b> primal empowered by Ala Mhigan desperation and the might of Nidhogg's eyes.
>>
>
> nightmarish  .adj. 可怕的；恶梦似的；不愉快的
>
>> Fearing a disaster to rival the Calamity itself, Papalymo steps forward with Tupsimati, and grimly begins to weave a forbidden magick of confinement...
>>
>
> grimly  .adv. 可怕地；冷酷地；严格地
>
>> You barely have time to escape on Hilda's airship before the incantation swallows Papalymo and encases the newborn entity in a vast <b class="text-red-500">cocoon</b> of light.
>>
>
> cocoon   .n. 茧，卵袋；（尤指保护性或安慰性的）遮盖（或包裹）物；安全宁静的地方，避风港；
>
>> Stunned by the unexpected summoning and the loss of her dearest friend, Yda's irrepressible spirit seems to have been broken at last.
>>
>
>> Offer her what comfort you may.
>>
>
>> You attempt to speak with Yda, but there seems to be nothing you can say that will pierce the shroud of her grief.
>>

‍
