---
title: 20. Heavensward
---

# Heavensward ❤

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- The guidance node has been awaiting your arrival at the Flagship with customary patience.

Guidance Node

-- Welcome to the Flagship, Mistress Luna. You are almost at your destination. <blip> <bloop> WARNING! Intruders detected in the vicinity. Please eliminate them if you wish to proceed.

-- <blip> <bloop> WARNING! Intruders approaching.

-- <blip> Area secured. Lifting access restriction to the Aetherochemical Research Facility... Restriction lifted. You may enter the facility at your leisure. Ending guidance. <blip> Unknown energy source detected within the Aetherochemical Research Facility. Please exercise caution. I am pleased to have been of service to you, Mistress Luna. Please send my regards to Master Wedge. Deactivating... <bloop>
</div>

>> <b class="text-red-500">Lifting</b> access restriction to the Aetherochemical Research Facility...
>>
>
> lift 有撤销的意思

<div class="border p-6">
Your pursuit of the archbishop has brought you to the Aetherochemical Research Facility, at the heart of the floating isle of Azys Lla. However, he and his knights are not the only threat for which you must be prepared; shortly before your arrival, the VIth Imperial Legion entered the facility in search of the secret to mastering primals, and their presence will serve to complicate matters. With multiple factions and their ambitions set on a collision course, your mission promises to be fraught with danger and uncertainty both.
</div>

>> With multiple factions and their ambitions set on a <b class="text-red-500">collision</b> course, your mission promises to be fraught with danger and uncertainty both.
>>
>
> collision  .n. 碰撞，相撞；冲突，抵触；争用

<div class="border p-6">
Lahabrea

-- The champion of Hydaelyn.

Igeyorhm

-- Tell me: why do you despise the primals so? They are the embodiment of mortal will─of mortal desire. Plainly, you desire a foe to despise. And 'tis well that you do, for it is from the vortex of ceaseless conflict that Lord Zodiark shall be reborn.

Lahabrea

-- Through the Joining, the world shall become whole again. Then all shall be as once it was─as it should ever have remained.

Igeyorhm

-- For the glory of Lord Zodiark.

Lahabrea

-- Your meddling ends here and now, Warrior of Light!

<hr class=" w-80 h-1 mx-auto my-4 bg-gray-200">
Igeyorhm: Come! We settle this once and for all!
Lahabrea: Our might knows no bounds!
Igeyorhm: Let us see you withstand two magicks at once!
Lahabrea: Fires of creation─arise!
Igeyorhm: My magicks flow as one!
<hr class=" w-80 h-1 mx-auto my-4 bg-gray-200">

Lahabrea

-- Such strength! It defies all reason...

Igeyorhm

-- No! I will not be bested by the likes of them! Lahabrea! It is time!

Lahabrea

-- Very well. Let us show these mortals the true power of the Echo... The power to break down the barriers of existence!

Igeyorhm

-- I am become you...

Lahabrea

-- ...And we are become one.

Asian Prime

-- Come, mortals! Render up your souls, that Lord Zodiark might be reborn!

<hr class=" w-80 h-1 mx-auto my-4 bg-gray-200">
Ascian Prime: Ahhh, the power of Darkness surges... Tranquil as ice, vicious as fire!
Ascian Prime: Feel the might of our magicks combined!
Ascian Prime: Not even the laws of creation can withstand the tides of chaos!
Ascian Prime: Stubborn mortals... Very well, we will show you our true strength!
Ascian Prime: Know eternal despair! Fire and ice consume you!
Ascian Prime: Even without the blessing of Light... How is this possible!?
Ascian Prime: Our might knows no bounds!
<hr class=" w-80 h-1 mx-auto my-4 bg-gray-200">

Asian Prime

-- What walls are these? Arrrgh! Damn you, Hydaelyn!
</div>

>> They are the <b class="text-red-500">embodiment</b> of mortal will─of mortal desire.
>>
>
> embodiment   .n. 体现，化身；（认知科学中的）具身化
>
>> It <b class="text-red-500">defies</b> all reason...
>>
>
> defy  .v. 违抗，不服从；挑战，激；无法，难以（描述或理解）；经受住，顶住

<div class="border p-6">
Lahabrea

-- That she might regain the blessing of Light I had foreseen... But she is grown so strong in it as to deny us our power.

Igeyorhm

-- Let us withdraw, Lahabrea. That power remains to us, at least.

-- Impossible!

Lahabrea

-- So you harnessed the Eye's power... A pity you spent it all. What will you do now, hero?

Archbishop Thordan VII

-- So, not even the vaunted Warrior of Light can unmake an Ascian without relying upon mortal contrivances.

Lahabrea

-- You!

Archbishop Thordan VII

-- In the distant past, King Thordan and his knights twelve fought and defeated Nidhogg. Though the victory cost them dear, they were rewarded with a great prize: the dread wyrm's eyes, both of which have since been held in the Holy See's safekeeping. The Eye you possess was Nidhogg's left, and long has it served as the source of the Azure Dragoon's might. As for its twin... 

-- It has lain here, joined to the person of Haldrath, the first Azure Dragoon. For though he learned to harness its power, he was ultimately consumed by it. Even in death, his body decays not─a pitiful end for a fabled hero.

-- My Ascian friend. Long have you and your kind sown the seeds of chaos by teaching mortals the secrets of summoning. But if you assumed that we would meekly serve as your pawns, then you are gravely mistaken.

Lahabrea

-- You would raise a hand against us!?

Archbishop Thordan VII

-- By taking unto my flesh the soul of the legendary King Thordan, I am become a god─

King Thordan

-- A god who knows not cessation, whose being is sustained by a millennium of fervent prayer and the Eye's nigh-bottomless reservoir of aether.

Lahabrea

-- What!?

King Thordan

-- Your contempt for man has proven your undoing, Ascian. For my first act as god-king, I do hereby sentence you to die.

Lahabrea

-- Aaaaaargggh!

King Thordan

-- Gods feed upon aether. It matters not what form that aether takes. Ascian souls are no exception. With this power, I shall put an end to a thousand years of conflict. Be they sown by Ascian, dragon, or primal, wheresoever the seeds of chaos threaten to quicken, I shall excise them with my divine blade and bring order to the world.

-- I am become that which you abhor, Warrior of Light. If you would take issue with my godhood, I shall answer you with my blade.
</div>

>> So, not even the vaunted Warrior of Light can unmake an Ascian without relying upon mortal <b class="text-red-500">contrivances</b>.
>>
>
> contrivance  .n. 发明；发明物；想出的办法；计谋
>
>> A god who knows not <b class="text-red-500">cessation</b>, whose being is sustained by a millennium of fervent prayer and the Eye's nigh-bottomless <b class="text-red-500">reservoir</b> of aether.
>>
>
> cessation  .n. 停止，中断
>
> reservoir  .n. 水库，蓄水池；储藏，蓄积 ；（机器等的）贮液器，贮液槽；（病原体的）储存宿主
>
>> Your <b class="text-red-500">contempt</b> for man has proven your undoing, Ascian.
>>
>
> contempt   .v. 轻视，蔑视；忽视，不顾；藐视法庭
>
>> If you would <b class="text-red-500">take issue with</b> my <b class="text-red-500">godhood</b>, I shall answer you with my blade.
>>
>
> take issue with  持不同意见，提出反对意见
>
> * I have to take issue with your proposal because it's not feasible. 我不得不对你的提议提出异议，因为它不可行。
>
> godhood  .n. 神格；神性；神的地位

<div class="border p-6">
Taking the soul of the legendary King Thordan into his flesh, the archbishop transforms into a primal before your very eyes. Sustained by a millennium of prayer and the Eye's aether, he declares his intent to rule over the world with an iron fist and for all time. Standing at his side are the sworn brothers of the Heavens' Ward, who have likewise transcended their mortal limits by becoming incarnations of the knights twelve. Strike them down, and eradicate the root of the Dragonsong War.
</div>

>> Strike them down, and <b class="text-red-500">eradicate</b> the root of the Dragonsong War.
>>
>
> eradicate  .v. 根除，消灭

<div class="border p-6">
Zephirin

-- Brothers! The time is come to call upon the true power of the Heavens' Ward!

King Thordan

-- Fight me if you will, Warrior of Light.

-- I care not. All who stand against me will be destroyed--be they servants of the Darkness or the Light. By my blessing shall all men be sanctified, and an endless era of peace begin. Vice and conflict shall cease to be. You reject my divinity, yet what have you to offer my people in its stead? Bitter truth? Virtuous suffering? No matter. If you believe your cause just, I call upon you to defend it with your life!

<hr class=" w-80 h-1 mx-auto my-4 bg-gray-200">
King Thordan: Your feeble light shall fade before my brilliance!
King Thordan: O Ascalon! Drink deep of the power of slumbering gods!
King Thordan: I shall end your vain struggle!
King Thordan: Y-You survived my divine reckoning!? Impossible!
King Thordan: This is the power of Light?
King Thordan: You think to withstand the fury of my divine will? Kneel now before the unfettered glory of the Eye!
<hr class=" w-80 h-1 mx-auto my-4 bg-gray-200">

Archbishop Thordan VII

-- How...how can this be? A millennium of prayer and the Eye's power combined--and still you stand?

-- Who--what are you?

Estinien

-- ...It is over, then? I had hoped that mine would be the hand to end it...but knowing you, there was little chance of that. 'Twould seem the Eye has served you well. Its twin... At long last... All that remains is to take them beyond the reach of man and dragon both. With this task accomplished, my toils shall finally be at an end.

Nidhogg

-- Thou hadst done well to resist mine influence, bathed in my power and blood as thou wert. Alas, in thine anticipation of comfort, thou hast lowered thy guard! The keening of my fallen kindred... Their smoldering desire for vengeance... Mine eyes have partaken of a thousand years of pain─a pain which I shall bestow upon thee. Drink deep of my rage, mortal...AND BECOME ME!

Estinien

-- Grrraaarrrgh!!!

Midgardsormr

-- Nidhogg, my child... What hath thy fury made of thee...?

-- Let us away, servant of Hydaelyn.
</div>

>> Kneel now before the <b class="text-red-500">unfettered</b> glory of the Eye!
>>
>
> unfetter  .v. 释放；使自由；除去……脚镣
>
>> Bitter truth? <b class="text-red-500">Virtuous</b> suffering?
>>
>
> virtuous  .adj. 道德高尚的，品行端正的；自命清高的，自鸣得意的；<旧>（尤指妇女）贞洁的；有效力的
>
>> If you believe your cause just, I call upon you to defend it with your life!
>>
>
>> there was little chance of that.
>>
>
>> With this task accomplished, my <b class="text-red-500">toils</b> shall finally be at an end.
>>
>
> toil  .n. （尤指体力上的）苦工，苦活；
>
>> Their <b class="text-red-500">smoldering</b> desire for vengeance...
>>
>
> smolder   .v. 闷烧；郁积

<div class="border p-6">
Wedge

-- Chief! Over there!

Biggs

-- Oi!

Cid

-- Haha! Godsdammit, do you always have to cut it so bloody close!?

Y'shtola

-- It would seem she has done it again.

Alphinaud

-- Was there ever any doubt? Let us return to Ishgard. Our friends will be eager to learn the battle's outcome...and welcome back their champion.

Y'shtola

-- Where is Estinien?
</div>

>> do you always have to cut it so bloody close!?
>>

<div class="border p-6">
Aymeric

-- I daresay you are the first soul in Ishgardian history to arrive in our city upon dragonback. This scene shall be remembered for a thousand years to come.

Alphinaud

-- As we had feared, the archbishop summoned the soul of King Thordan unto himself and thence became a primal.

Y'shtola

-- But he and his knights are no more, thanks to the Warrior of Light.

Midgardsormr

-- Your struggles are not yet over, mortals.

Aymeric

-- Whom do I have the pleasure...?

Midgardsormr

-- I am Midgardsormr. I have journeyed with Hydaelyn's champion and observed her deeds in the conflict between man and dragon. Tell me, children of Thordan. Do you desire peace?

Aymeric

-- My people have committed unspeakable atrocities against dragonkind--even against our own. Would that we could undo these wrongs...but we cannot. Be that as it may, the future yet presents a chance to begin anew. Our nation has broken free of the shackles of a false faith, and Nidhogg shall lead his kindred against us no more. I doubt not that it will require much effort and perseverance, but 'tis my belief that, in time, Ishgard will again become a place where man and dragon may abide together in harmony.

Midgardsormr

-- I shall remember thy words. Yet be warned: Nidhogg's soul liveth on. His unbridled rage hath claimed for its vessel the one thou callest the Azure Dragoon.

Aymeric

-- Estinien!

Midgardsormr

-- Doubt not but that Nidhogg will call out to his brood ere long, nor that they shall answer him. Steel yourselves, for the true test is yet to come.

Aymeric

-- Come what may, we will never cease to believe. Upon the souls of they who have sacrificed themselves to pave the way for peace, we will never abandon our cause.

Aymeric

-- A thousand-year war cannot be ended in a day. It may take generations. What thou dost begin, thy children must continue. Entrust unto them thy hopes and dreams, that peace may reign again...and forevermore.
</div>

>> My people have committed unspeakable <b class="text-red-500">atrocities</b> against dragonkind─even against our own.
>>
>
> atrocity  .n. （常伴有暴力伤害的）恶行，暴行
>
>> Be that as it may, the future yet presents a chance to begin anew. Our nation has broken free of the <b class="text-red-500">shackles</b> of a false faith, and Nidhogg shall lead his kindred against us no more.
>>
>
> shackle  .n. 束缚；桎梏；脚镣
>
>> His <b class="text-red-500">unbridled</b> rage hath claimed for its vessel the one thou callest the Azure Dragoon.
>>
>
> unbridled  .adj. 放肆的；无拘束的；激烈的
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">Come what may</b>, we will never cease to believe.
>>
>
> Come what may 不管发生什么；无论如何

<div class="border p-6">
Nanamo

-- Let all here present attest that Ser Aymeric, acting on behalf of the archbishop, has appended his signature. I do hereby declare... That from this day forth, the Holy See of Ishgard shall once more be counted a member of the Eorzean Alliance. Let our nations move forward as one, and stand united against the Garlean Empire!

Aymeric, Kan-E-Senna, Merlwyb, Raubahn

-- For the future of Eorzea!

Alphinaud

-- 	There you are.

-- A noble monument to a noble soul.

Tataru

-- From here, Lord Haurchefant can watch over all of Ishgard...

Alphinaud

-- It has been a long and arduous journey. And we have lost much and more along the way. Yet come what may, we must stay true to our purpose and press on.

-- That's right, you two! It's high time we got back to rebuilding the Scions! 	Which means we're going to need money─and lots of it!
</div>

>> That from this day forth, the Holy See of Ishgard shall once more be counted a member of the Eorzean Alliance.
>>

<div class="border p-6">
So ends a glorious chapter in their tale. However, tumultuous days yet lie ahead for Ishgard. After a thousand years under the yoke of the church, the people take their first tentative steps into the unknown. And though they spy a glimmer of peace upon the horizon, Nidhogg's vengeful shadow yet remains to darken the way. Be that as it may... So long as the young commander of the Temple Knights and his heroic companions are there to guide them, the people may hold fast to hope─the hope that, one day, true peace will return to Ishgard, and that man and dragon may live in harmony once more. Let the deeds writ herein never be forgot, that they may inspire generations yet unborn to strive ever heavensward.
</div>

>> However, <b class="text-red-500">tumultuous</b> days yet lie ahead for Ishgard.
>>
>
> tumultuous  .adj. 吵闹的；骚乱的；狂暴的
>
>> After a thousand years under the yoke of the church, the people take their first tentative steps into the unknown.
>>
>
> tentative  .adj. 试探性的，暂定的；踌躇的，犹豫不定的
>
>> Let the deeds <b class="text-red-500">writ</b> <b class="text-red-500">herein</b> never be forgot, that they may inspire generations yet unborn to strive ever heavensward.
>>
>
> writ  [法] 令状；文书；法院命令
>
> herein  .adv. 本文中，本书中；于此，在此
>
> strive  .v. 努力，力争；斗争，反抗

<div class="border p-6">
Elidibus

-- So Lahabrea and Igeyorhm have fallen. Bested by mortals in their attempt to initiate the eighth Rejoining. That they should be so complacent... And now it falls to me to deal with the consequences... Without intervention, the balance between Light and Darkness will begin to shift, placing our mission in jeopardy. Hydaelyn's champion has grown too strong. Her might encroaches upon the realm of gods. Equilibrium must needs be restored. The time is come for you and yours to join the fray...

-- Warrior of Darkness.
</div>

>> Her might <b class="text-red-500">encroaches</b> upon the realm of gods.
>>
>
> encroach  .v. 逐步侵占（侵犯），蚕食；侵占（土地）
>
>> The time is come for you and yours to join the <b class="text-red-500">fray</b>...
>>
>
> fray  .n. 争论；打架；磨损处

<div class="border p-6">
Cid

-- Remind me: why is there no rest for the righteous?

Y'shtola

- Because they care, Master Garlond.

Cid

-- Of all the things they could have picked to play with... That's not a toy, you bloody fools─it's a primal!
</div>

>> Remind me: why is there no rest for the righteous?
>>
>
> （这句话可能的意思是：为什么善良的人总是得不到休息呢？）

<div class="border p-6">
Lucia

-- You are a true hero, my friend. The minstrels shall sing of your deeds for generations to come. The road to reform will be long and trying, but Ser Aymeric will not rest until he reaches its end. And I shall walk with him every step of the way.

Hilda

-- You know, seein' you flyin' in on dragonback helped put things in perspective. I mean, if man and dragon can put aside their differences, how hard can it be for the rest of us? To be sure, our lives won't change overnight, and it'll take effort to bridge the gulf between highborn and lowborn, but I'm confident it'll all work out in the end.

Eudestand

-- Hilda says the Hounds'll be doin' some trainin' alongside the Temple Knights. Probably best that we know how the other does things so's we don't end up steppin' on each other's toes.

Symme

-- I've been spending my spare time learning how to tinker with this and that over at the manufactory. Should come in handy seeing how we handle firearms in the Hounds.

Elaisse

-- Ishgard's return to the Eorzean Alliance has breathed new life into the Jeweled Crozier. The announcement had scarce been made when the merchants began eyeing opportunities in foreign markets.

Gibrillont

-- Shame Mistress Tataru had to move on. We've grown rather accustomed to having her around.

House Fortemps Manservant

-- When first I bade you welcome before the Arc of the Worthy, little did I imagine that you would go on to steer the very course of our nation. I am proud to have borne witness to history in the making.
</div>

>> You know, seein' you flyin' in on dragonback helped <b class="text-red-500">put things in perspective</b>.
>>
>
> put things in perspective  正确看待事物：以正确的方式看待事物，不被情绪或个人偏见所影响。
>
> * When you feel overwhelmed, try to put things in perspective and focus on what's important. 当你感到不知所措时，试着正确看待事物，专注于重要的事情。
>
>> To be sure, our lives won't change overnight, and it'll take effort to bridge the <b class="text-red-500">gulf</b> between highborn and lowborn, but I'm confident it'll all work out in the end.
>>
>
> gulf  .n. 海湾；鸿沟，分歧；波斯湾；（地面的）裂口，深渊
>
>> I've been spending my spare time learning how to <b class="text-red-500">tinker</b> with this and that over at the manufactory.
>>
>
> tinker  .v.（徒劳地或马虎地）小修补；笨手笨脚地做事；做焊锅匠；焊补
>
>> Ishgard's return to the Eorzean Alliance has breathed new life into the Jeweled Crozier.
>>
>
>> When first I bade you welcome before the Arc of the Worthy, little did I imagine that you would go on to <b class="text-red-500">steer</b> the very course of our nation.
>>
>
> steer  .v. 驾驶（交通工具），掌方向盘；引导，指导（某人的行为）；引导，带领（某人去某地）；

<div class="border p-6">
Vodofnir

-- Thou art welcome here, friend of Ysayle. I have heard all that hath come to pass. Ysayle was as a brood-sister to me, and her death no less tragic for man's fleeting life. I shall miss her...

Matoya

-- I don't care much for politics. Too much talk and not enough action. If I were you, I'd forget about all that racket and have some time to myself. Even you must see you've earned it.

Emmanellain

-- There you are, old girl! We must go to the tavern together, and soon! My friends all demand to be introduced to the Warrior of Light, and they refuse to take no for an answer!

Honoroit

-- Pray pay no heed to Lord Emmanellain, Mistress Kali. I am certain you have far more pressing demands on your time. And for his part, my lord has lessons to attend... He has resumed training in the blade, you see, and has shown admirable dedication...for the most part. I believe he has a mind to take up Lord Haurchefant's mantle─but if he is to succeed in this, he will need all the help he can get, and as few distractions as possible.

Artoirel

-- I confess, I found the ceremony unexpectedly stirring... Each of us must play our part in building a brighter future for Ishgard─we who profess to rule most of all.
</div>

>> Pray pay no heed to Lord Emmanellain, Mistress Kali.
>>
>
>> Each of us must play our part in building a brighter future for Ishgard--we who <b class="text-red-500">profess</b> to rule most of all.
>>
>
> profess  .v. 自称，（尤指）伪称；公开承认（某种感受或信仰）；信仰，信奉（宗教）；

<div class="border p-6">
Tataru

-- If the Eorzean Alliance can be restored to its former glory, so can the Scions of the Seventh Dawn! Let's find our lost friends and begin anew!

Alphinaud

-- After long years of estrangement, Ishgard rejoins her sister nations in the Alliance. Words cannot well express my joy. None of this would have been possible without you, my friend. Change is coming to Eorzea. Though it will inevitably bring with it a measure of upheaval, with hard work, peace and prosperity are sure to follow. And yet, even as we look forward to the coming of a new age, we must needs be wary of old threats. The lords of Garlemald have not relinquished their claim upon Eorzea, and we shall be forced to contend with them again ere long. And then there is the matter of our comrade Estinien, claimed body and soul by Nidhogg... If there is a way to rescue him, we must find it. Suffice it to say, the path ahead holds no shortage of challenges, but together, we shall overcome them.
</div>

>> After long years of <b class="text-red-500">estrangement</b>, Ishgard rejoins her sister nations in the Alliance.
>>
>
> estrangement  .n. 疏远；失和
>
>> Though it will inevitably bring with it a measure of <b class="text-red-500">upheaval</b>, with hard work, peace and prosperity are sure to follow.
>>
>
> upheaval  .n. 激变，剧变；（地壳）隆起
>
>> Suffice it to say, the path ahead holds no shortage of challenges, but together, we shall overcome them.
>>

<div class="border p-6">
According to the guidance node, you are but a few steps away from your destination. However, it would seem that intruders have been detected ahead. Follow the node towards the heart of the isle, and be ready to defend yourself.

You have eliminated the imperial troops and secured the area. Speak with the guidance node to be granted entry to the Aetherochemical Research Facility.

Having opened the way to the Aetherochemical Research Facility, the guidance node bids you farewell and deactivates for what might very well be another five millennia. After casting a final glance at Gilly's motionless form, you turn your mind to the challenges of the present. Somewhere within, the archbishop and his knights await. Ready yourself for the worst and continue your pursuit.

While fighting your way through the Aetherochemical Research Facility, you find yourself face-to-face with Lahabrea and Igeyorhm. In a bid to eliminate you, the Ascians attack as one, but with Hydaelyn's blessing restored, you are more than a match for them.

Realizing the battle is lost, Igeyorhm attempts to flee, but before she can make good her escape, you destroy her with a blade of Light forged from the Eye's remaining aether. Alas, you are left without the means to strike down Lahabrea. Just when it seems certain that the Ascian will slip through your grasp, the archbishop and his knights arrive, bearing the body of Haldrath...and the Eye's long-lost twin. Having summoned the soul of the legendary King Thordan into himself, the archbishop conjures a divine blade using the power of the second Eye, and summarily executes Lahabrea. Judgment passed, the self-proclaimed god-king duly turns to leave, but not before issuing you a challenge. Answer it, and put an end to his madness once and for all.

At the end of a titanic struggle, you triumph over Thordan and his knights, bringing to an end their deranged dream of founding a new world order.

Still breathless from your exertions, you look up to see Estinien, who sullenly collects the Eye and its twin. Alas, in so doing, the dragoon falls prey to Nidhogg's lingering influence and is claimed as a vessel for the great wyrm's rage. No sooner has he departed than the facility begins to collapse around you, prompting Midgardsormr to appear once again, and bear you away to safety.

Still reeling from what you have seen, you rejoin your comrades aboard the Excelsior, and are borne back to Ishgard and a hero's welcome. At the airship landing, Midgardsormr addresses Aymeric, and the two speak candidly of the future, their meeting marking the start of the journey towards peace between man and dragon.

Some days later, the Holy See makes its long-awaited return to the Eorzean Alliance in an uplifting ceremony attended by the leaders of all four city–states. A fitting reward for your efforts, no doubt, but one that you wish Haurchefant, Ysayle, and Estinien could have seen... Speak with Alphinaud at Fortemps Manor and hear his thoughts on this momentous occasion.

Alphinaud is elated that his dream of a unified Eorzea has finally been realized. Though upheaval will invariably accompany the coming changes, he is confident that, with effort, peace and prosperity will follow. Together with your fellow Scions, do your part to see that it is so.
</div>

>> you are more than a match for them.
>>
>
>> Realizing the battle is lost, Igeyorhm attempts to flee, but before she can make good her escape, you destroy her with a blade of Light forged from the Eye's remaining aether.
>>
>
>> Alas, you are left without the means to strike down Lahabrea.
>>
>
>> Having summoned the soul of the legendary King Thordan into himself, the archbishop <b class="text-red-500">conjures</b> a divine blade using the power of the second Eye, and <b class="text-red-500">summarily</b> executes Lahabrea.
>>
>
> conjure  .v. 变魔术，使……变戏法般地出现（或消失）；想象出，设想出；使浮现于脑海，使想起；念咒召唤出（鬼魂等）；
>
> summarily  .adv. 概要地；立刻；概略地
>
>> Judgment passed, the self-proclaimed god-king duly turns to leave, but <b class="text-red-500">not before</b> issuing you a challenge. 
>>
>
> not before  在某个特定时间之前不会发生或不会被允许发生的意思
>
> * The concert will not start before 8 pm, so don't arrive at the venue not before 7:30 pm. 音乐会不会在8点之前开始，所以不要在7:30之前到达场馆。
>
>> At the end of a titanic struggle, you triumph over Thordan and his knights, bringing to an end their <b class="text-red-500">deranged</b> dream of founding a new world order.
>>
>
> derange  .v. 扰乱；使错乱；使发狂
>
>> Still breathless from your <b class="text-red-500">exertions</b>, you <b class="text-red-500">look up to see</b> Estinien, who <b class="text-red-500">sullenly</b> collects the Eye and its twin.
>>
>
> exertion  .n. 努力，尽力：付出精力、时间或力量去完成某事。
>
> look up to see  抬头看：抬头向上看以观察或寻找某物。
>
> * Look up to see the stars in the sky. 抬头看，可以看到天空中的星星。
>
> sullenly  .adv. 阴沉地，不高兴地
>
>> No sooner has he departed than the facility begins to collapse around you, prompting Midgardsormr to appear once again, and bear you away to safety.
>>
>
>> Still <b class="text-red-500">reeling from</b> what you have seen, you rejoin your comrades aboard the Excelsior, and are borne back to Ishgard and a hero's welcome.
>>
>
> reel from 因为某种情况或事件而感到非常震惊、困惑或无法承受。
>
>> At the airship landing, Midgardsormr addresses Aymeric, and the two speak candidly of the future, their meeting marking the start of the journey towards peace between man and dragon.
>>
>
>> Some days later, the Holy See makes its long-awaited return to the Eorzean Alliance in an <b class="text-red-500">uplifting</b> ceremony attended by the leaders of all four city–states.
>>
>
> uplifting  .adj. 令人振奋的；使人开心的
>
>> Alphinaud is elated that his dream of a unified Eorzea has finally been realized.
>>
>
>> Though upheaval will invariably accompany the coming changes, he is confident that, with effort, peace and prosperity will follow.
>>

‍
