---
title: 1. Coming to Ishgard
---

# Coming to Ishgard 

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- The time for action has come, and Alphinaud knows what he must do.

Tataru:

-- No matter how long it takes, I have faith we will find the others! With lady Yugiri's shinobi, Urianger's intelligence, and my ... versatility, there's nothing we cannot do!
</div>

>> With lady Yugiri's <b class='text-red-500'>shinobi</b>, Urianger's intelligence, and my ... <b class="text-red-500">versatility</b>
>>
>
> shinobi .n. 忍者
>
> versatility .n. 多功能性；多才多艺；用途广泛

<div class="border p-6">
Alphinaud

-- The dawn's light will shine again...

-- So long as we have these specious accusations hanging over us, we will struggle to achieve anything. You must go to Ishgard, as Tataru proposed. I will return to Ul'dah and set things right.

Haurchefant

-- Pray do not be so hasty, Master Alphinaud.

Alphinaud

-- Lord Haurchefant?

Haurchefant

-- Full well do I understand your desire to clear your names. But now is not the time for drastic action. You yet have allies upon whom you can rely. There is no need to act alone.

Alphinaud

-- Yes...yes, of course. Pray forgive my impatience.

Haurchefant

-- I bring tidings. Count Edmont has decreed that the three of you be taken in as wards of House Fortemps. Under our patronge, you shall be granted access to the city proper.

-- Pray consider our manor your new headquarters, from which you may gather information and plan how best to proceed. Needless to say, should any of your missing allies be found--as I am certain they shall─they will of course be welcome to join you there.

Alphinaud

-- You are more than generous, my friend. On behalf of my fellows, I humbly accept your offer of hospitality.

Haurchefant

-- The count is a good man and just. He will treat you with the kindness and respect that a hero─and dear friend─deserves.

Alphinaud

-- To Ishgard, then─together. There we shall carry on the Scions' legacy. There we shall begin anew.

Tataru

-- Hear, hear!


</div>

>> So long as we have these <b class="text-red-500">specious</b> <b class="text-red-500">accusations</b> hanging over us
>>
>
> specious .adj. 似是而非的，华而不实的
>
> accusation .n. 指控
>
>> Pray do not be so <b class="text-red-500">hasty</b>
>>
>
> hasty .adj. 急躁的，匆忙的
>
>> But now is not the time for <b class="text-red-500">drastic</b> action
>>
>
> drastic  .adj. 激烈的，极端的
>
>> I bring <b class="text-red-500">tidings</b>. <b class="text-red-500">Count</b> Edmont has <b class="text-red-500">decreed</b> that the three of you be taken in as wards of House Fortemps.
>>
>
> tidings .n. 消息（需要s结尾）
>
> count 本身还有“伯爵”的意思
>
> decree .v. 裁定，决定

<div class="border p-6">
Alphinaud:

-- Not at all the circumstances under which I had hoped to visit Ishgard for the first time, but so be it.

Tataru:

-- They say the winds can be rather fierce on the Steps of Faith. Be sure to warp up before we go!

Haurchefant

-- I must go on ahead and speak with the count. Fear not, however, for everything has been arranged. The sentries at the Gates of Judgement have been informed of our decision. You need but state your names, and they will allow you to pass. My manservant shall be waiting for you at the city gates, ready to escort you to our manor, where we shall meet again. Until then!

Temple Knight Gateguard

-- Wards of House Fortemps? Ah, yes... You may pass.
</div>

>> Not at all the circumstances under which I had hoped to visit Ishgard for the first time, but so be it.
>>
>
>>  You need but state your names, and they will allow you to pass.
>>

<div class="border p-6">
And so they came, at a friend's behest. 
Heroes once celebrated as saviors of Eorzea, brought low through treachery, their names blackened with royal blood.. 
With memories of the lost and dreams of redemption, with hope yet in their hearts, they came...

To Ishgard, shining city on the mount, overlooking the dominion of Coerthas... 
A great and proud nation devoted to Halone, the Fury, ruled by Thordan VII, Archbishop of the Ishgardian Orthodox Church... 
The last bastion of the Faith, her walls ever bristling with the sworn swords and spears of her four High Houses... 
A land that after a thousand years of war had forgotten what it was to be at peace. 
Through gates long closed the Warrior of Light and her companions passed, entering at last a city whose history was written in blood. 
In the midst of the Dragonsong War they came─three weary travelers whose arrival would set in motion great change... 
Though none knew then how great...

(From the memoirs of Count Edmont de Fortemps -- Heavensward)
</div>

‍

<div class="border p-6">
Alphinaud

-- From afar, the spires did not seem so tall...

Tataru

-- Gods... I feel like a child in a giant's castle!

House Fortemps Manservant

-- Greetings, Mistress Kali. On behalf of House Fortemps, I bid you welcome to Ishgard. My lord humbly requests your presence at his residence in the Pillars. If you all would come with me...

Alphinaud

-- To look upon the splendor of these heights, one would little suspect the ruin wrought by the wyverns below...

Tataru

-- Is it just me, or is the air up here different? You can almost smell the wealth and power! Gods, it's making me feel faint...

House Fortemps Guard

-- Greetings, miss, and welcome to Fortemps Manor.

Haurchefant

-- The Warrior of Light and her brave companions, walking the streets of Ishgard at last! What a glorious sight! I cannot tell you how long I have waited for this day. Allow me to present to you my family home: Fortemps Manor! I should like nothing more than to show you around, but everyone is gathered to receive you. Come, my friends! Introductions must be made!
</div>

>> On behalf of House Fortemps, I bid you welcome to Ishgard. My lord humbly requests your presence at his residence in the Pillars.
>>
>
>> To look upon the splendor of these heights, one would little suspect the ruin wrought by the wyverns below...
>>
>
>> You can almost smell the wealth and power! Gods, it's making me feel faint...
>>
>
>> Come, my friends! Introductions must be made!
>>

<div class="border p-6">
Haurchefant

-- My lord, I have returned with the Scions.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- I hope your jounrney was not too taxing. I, Count Edmont de Fortemps, do bid you welcome. As wards of House Fortemps, you shall be afforded every courtesy. My home is your home.

Alphinaud

-- My companions and I are deeply honored, Count Fortemps.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- The honor is mine, Master Alphinaud. Consider it an expression of our gratitude for your service to Ishgard.

Alphinaud

-- Forgive me, my lord, but...are you not concerned? To accept foreign guests at such a juncture--especially ones with our...reputation...

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- Do not worry yourself on my account. 'Tis true that Ishgard's first thought has ever been the war effort, hence the closing of our borders...Yet it is in troubled times most of all that men should seek allies, don't you think?

-- Granted, my decision will have raised eyebrows in the Vault and in the halls of the other High Houses. But so long as you continue with your altruistic endeavors, I doubt my honored peers will feel moved to voice their concerns.

Alphinaud:

-- Then there is naught to fear. Though our numbers are much reduced, we are no less determined to carry on our work.

Count Edmont de Fortemps:

-- Full glad am I to hear it. Ah, but before you return to your labors, why not take a tour of the city? You would do well, I think, to acquaint yourselves with your new surroundings. After all, you may be here for some time.
</div>

>> I hope your jounrney was not too <b class="text-red-500">taxing</b>.
>>
>
> taxing .adj. 繁重的
>
>> we are <b class="text-red-500">no less</b> <b class="text-red-500">determined</b> to carry on our work.
>>
>
> no less 不亚于：表示某事物与另一事物相当或相似，用于强调某种程度或数量。
>
> determined  .adj.下定决心的，坚定的

<div class="border p-6">
The Scions of the Seventh Dawn, once proclaimed the saviors of Eorzea, are now condemned as murderers─betrayed by the Crystal Braves and forced to flee the banquet held to celebrate the very victory they helped to bring about. One by one, your comrades remained behind in a bid to aid your escape, until you alone emerged from the tunnels beneath Ul'dah to be reunited with Alphinaud and seek refuge in Coerthas. But will you ever find sanctuary behind the walls of Ishgard? Having bided your time in Camp Dragonhead for what feels like an age, you finally have your answer: yes. As wards of House Fortemps, you will be granted admission to the city proper. Haurchefant will tell you more.

In the end, it is as simple as speaking with a sentry at the Gates of Judgement. All has been arranged, and none will deny you passage.

Eyeing you warily, the sentry motions for you to enter. The Steps of Faith await─and beyond, Ishgard.

As you arrive in Foundation, you find that the destruction wrought by the wyverns is still fresh. Nearby, a well-dressed man beckons to you─presumably the manservant of whom Lord Haurchefant spoke.

The House Fortemps manservant welcomes you to Ishgard, and bids you follow him to the family manor in the Pillars above, where Haurchefant awaits.

At the manor, Haurchefant presents you to Count Edmont de Fortemps, who invites you to treat his home as your own. When Alphinaud expresses concern over the possible repercussions of harboring foreign fugitives, Edmont reassures you that your reputation does not concern him, and expresses confidence that his fellow Ishgardians will come to accept your presence given time.
</div>

>> The Scions of the Seventh Dawn, once <b class="text-red-500">proclaimed</b> the saviors of Eorzea, are now <b class="text-red-500">condemned</b> as murderers
>>
>
> proclaim  .v. 宣布;声明; 表明；显示
>
> condemn .v. （通常指出于道义而）谴责，指责
>
>> One by one, your comrades remained behind in a <b class="text-red-500">bid</b> to aid your escape, until you alone emerged from the tunnels beneath Ul'dah to be reunited with Alphinaud and seek refuge in Coerthas
>>
>
> bid  .v. 争取；竞争；（尤指在拍卖中）出价，喊价竞买
>
>> Having bided your time in Camp Dragonhead for what feels like an age, you finally have your answer: yes.
>>
>
> bide your time   静候时机
>
>> Eyeing you <b class="text-red-500">warily</b>, the sentry <b class="text-red-500">motions</b> for you to enter.
>>
>
> wary  .adj. 谨慎的；小心翼翼的
>
> motion   .v. 打手势；点（或摇）头示意
>
>> Nearby, a well-dressed man <b class="text-red-500">beckons</b> to you
>>
>
> beckon  .v. （向…）点头；（向…）招手；（向…）打手势；吸引;引诱
>
>> When Alphinaud expresses concern over the possible <b class="text-red-500">repercussions</b> of harboring foreign fugitives, Edmont reassures you that your reputation does not concern him, and expresses confidence that his fellow Ishgardians will come to accept your presence given time.
>>
>
> repercussion .n. （尤指坏的）影响，反响；恶果

# Taking in the Sights

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Alphinaud has a mind to learn more about Ishgard.

Tataru

-- So this is what the inside of the manor of a High House looks like! To think that Lord Haurchefant was raised here...

Haurchefant

-- So, what do you think? Be honest─it's great, isn't it?

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- As I said before, my home is your home. After all you have done on our behalf, it is the least I can offer.

Emmanellain

-- They'll be whispering about you soon, if they aren't already. “The mysterious guests of House Fortemps,” or some such.

Artoirel

-- Greetings, Scion, and welcome. We are honored by your presence.

House Fortemps Manseravnt

-- It is an honor to have you with us, Mistress Kali.

Alphinaud

-- Though our friends in House Fortemps have been generous enough to extend us their protection, we must take care not to impose too much on their hospitality. It is only proper that we learn about our new home, so that we might become more self-sufficient.

Tataru

-- It'll take a while to learn the lay of the land, but learn it we must. Then there's the markets and taverns--we'll need to know where to shop and where to hear small talk.

Alphinaud

-- 'Twould seem a tour of the city is indeed in order.

-- I thank you for your counsel, my lord. My companions and I shall of course do as you suggest.
 
Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- Very good. Then my manservant shall accompany you. He will be able to answer any questions you might have.

-- Ah, but I grow forgetful in my dotage--there is something I must give you ere we part.

-- Their documentation is in order, I trust?

House Fortemps Manseravnt

-- Yes, my lord.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- Those documents identify you as wards of House Fortemps. Given that our borders have remained closed for decades, many of my countrymen are unaccustomed to treating with foreigners. Should anyone happen to question your presence here, it may prove necessary to remind them that you remain under the protection of House Fortemps. But let us hope it shall not come to that.

Alphinaud

-- Rest assured that we shall do our utmost to avoid any situation which might compel us to invoke your name.

-- Luna, Tataru─the city awaits.

Tataru

-- Let's go!
</div>

>> It is only proper that we learn about our new home, so that we might become more <b class="text-red-500">self-sufficient.</b>
>>
>
> self-sufficient  .adj. 自给自足的；极为自负的；过于自信的
>
>> It'll take a while to learn the <b class="text-red-500">lay of the land</b>, but learn it we must.
>>
>
> lay of the land  情况的安排或布局：在投资前想要了解更多关于情况的安排或布局。
>
> * Before making any decisions, it's important to understand the lay of the land. 在做出任何决策之前，了解情况的安排或布局非常重要。
>
>> I thank you for your <b class="text-red-500">counsel</b>, my lord.
>>
>
> counsel   .n. 忠告，建议
>
>> I grow forgetful in my <b class="text-red-500">dotage</b>
>>
>
> dotage    .n. 老糊涂

<div class="border p-6">
Alphinaud

-- I confess, it had long been a dream of mine to visit Ishgard. To my childish self, her towers, bridges, and cobbled streets seemed akin to something from a faerie tale─and I have never quite outgrown the fantasy.

Tataru

-- I'm glad I have a map!

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- As this is your first time in our fair city, pray permit me to show you to the Hoplon, from whence we may gaze upon the splendor of the Holy Vault. Though all other sights pale in comparison, 'tis only meet that you see it first. I shall then show you around the Jeweled Crozier, where you may purchase all manner of goods and services, before descending to Foundation's aetheryte plaza. If there are no questions...

Alphinaud

-- The Holy Vault, where Archbishop Thordan VII rules from on high...

Tataru

-- They're awfully fond of statues, aren't they? Hey, what if I took up sculpting? I bet you could make a fortune in a place like this! And we need every gil we can get!

House Fortemps Manseravnt

-- The Hoplon, so named for the bronze greatshield borne by our nation's patron deity, is the largest plaza in Ishgard. The magnificent cathedral to the north is, of course, the Holy Vault. The Vault is both Ishgard's seat of government and the residence of the archbishop of the Ishgardian Orthodox Church.

Alphinaud

-- Begging your pardon... The statues to the south─are they perchance Thordan's famed “knights twelve”?

House Fortemps Manseravnt

-- Very good, Master Alphinaud. They are the fathers of Ishgard─the brave knights who joined with King Thordan I to put down Nidhogg and found this great nation. Ours is a city rich in history and tradition, and there is much you can learn by exploring the Pillars─time permitting, of course.

House Fortemps Manseravnt

-- Now then, if you would follow me to the Jeweled Crozier, I shall introduce you to Mistress Elaisse, our master of the markets.
</div>

>> The Hoplon, so named for the <b class="text-red-500">bronze</b> greatshield <b class="text-red-500">borne</b> by our nation's <b class="text-red-500">patron deity</b>
>>
>
> bronze  .n. 青桐  .adj. 青铜色
>
> borne  忍受，负荷，bear的过去分词
>
> patron deity 守护神，patron的意思是赞助，授权，deity是神，神性的意思
>
>> The magnificent <b class="text-red-500">cathedral</b> to the north is, of course, the Holy Vault.
>>
>
> cathedral   .n. 大教堂

<div class="border p-6">
Tataru

-- If you want to buy something, let me do the talking. I could haggle for Ul'dah!

Alphinaud

-- Not a single scorched stone in sight... To watch these merchants going about their business, one would think the dragons had never attacked.

House Fortemps Manseravnt

-- I present to you Mistress Elaisse. Mayhap you would like to say a few words?

Eliaisse

-- Well you're clearly not locals or traveling peddlers, which makes you all...?

-- Ahhh, wards of House Fortemps! How very interesting.

Alphinaud

-- Count Edmont has granted us leave to remain in Ishgard for as long as we wish─which may be some time. Accordingly, we will have need of sundry goods, hence our desire to make your acquaintance. That is, of course, assuming you are content to accept the custom of foreigners. Should you be uncomfortable─

Eliaisse

-- Young sir, we do not discriminate in matters of money. If you have coin to spend, who are we to refuse it? Weapons, armor, accoutrements, medicine, materials─whatever your desire, it can be found in the Crozier. Our merchants will be more than happy to accommodate you, as you shall soon see.

-- A warm welcome to you, miss!

House Fortemps Manseravnt

-- Our next destination is the aetheryte plaza in Foundation. If everyone is ready...

Tataru

-- Do you ever get a funny tingling feeling when you attune to an aetheryte, or is it just me? ...No? So, it is just me... Hmmm...

Alphinaud

-- Hm? Oh, I have already attuned myself to the aetheryte. I trust you have as well?

House Fortemps Manseravnt

-- And here we have Foundation's aetheryte plaza. If you have yet to attune to the aetheryte, it would be wise to do so now.

Tataru

-- You don't think it's anything serious, do you? The tingling, I mean. There couldn't be something wrong with my anima, could there...?

Alphinaud

-- If you have attuned to the aetheryte then let us move on. I am eager to see more of the city.
</div>

>> I could <b class="text-red-500">haggle</b> for Ul'dah!
>>
>
> haggle  .v. 讨价还价，争论；乱劈，乱砍
>
>> Count Edmont has granted us leave to remain in Ishgard for as long as we wish─which may be some time.
>>
>
>> Accordingly, we will have need of sundry goods, hence our desire to make your acquaintance.
>>
>
>> we do not <b class="text-red-500">discriminate</b> in matters of money.
>>
>
> discriminate  .v. 歧视，区别对待
>
>> Weapons, armor, <b class="text-red-500">accoutrements</b>, medicine, materials─whatever your desire, it can be found in the Crozier.
>>
>
> accoutrement  .n. 穿着；配备（也作accouterment）

<div class="border p-6">
Seeing the wisdom in Count Edmont's words, Alphinaud and Tataru resolve to learn more of Ishgard. Before you depart, the count furnishes you all with documentation identifying you as wards of House Fortemps, and commands one of his servants to serve as your guide. Join your comrades outside and begin your tour.

This being your first time in Ishgard, your guide is adamant that you should first gaze upon the resplendence of the Holy Vault. Heed his words and join him in the Hoplon.

In the Hoplon, your guide tells you of the Vault, wherein Thordan VII, Archbishop of the Ishgardian Orthodox Church, resides and rules. At this point, Alphinaud takes note of the twelve statues standing nearby, which the manservant confirms as the “knights twelve” who served King Thordan I in antiquity and went on to found the nation of Ishgard. Eager to press on, the manservant bids you follow him to the Jeweled Crozier, where you will be introduced to Mistress Elaisse, master of the Ishgardian markets.

Though Alphinaud is concerned that the merchants of Ishgard may be reluctant to accept your custom, Mistress Elaisse assures him that nothing could be further from the truth. Weapons, armor, accoutrements, medicine, materials─whatever you desire, it can be found in the Crozier, she promises, and none will refuse your coin. Soon after, your guide signals that it is time to visit the aetheryte plaza and makes for Foundation, with Alphinaud and Tataru close behind.

Having returned to Foundation, your guide advises you to attune to the aetheryte. He then pauses to allow you to catch your breath, and awaits your command to continue the tour.
</div>

>> Before you depart, the count <b class="text-red-500">furnishes you all with documentation</b> identifying you as wards of House Fortemps.
>>
>
> furnish sb with sth .v. 为...提供
>
>> your guide<b class="text-red-500"> is adamant that</b> you should first gaze upon the <b class="text-red-500">resplendence</b> of the Holy Vault.
>>
>
> be adamant that  坚持要...，adamant本身的意思是固执于
>
> resplendence .n. 辉煌，灿烂
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">Heed</b> his words and join him in the Hoplon.
>>
>
> heed  .v. 留心，注意
>
>> Alphinaud takes note of the twelves statues standing nearby,
>>
>
> take note of  注意某事物，尤其是因为它很重要
>
> * Please take note of the safety instructions before operating the machinery. 在操作机器之前，请注意安全说明。
>
>> Mistress Elaisse assures him that <b class="text-red-500">nothing could be further from the truth</b>
>>
>
> nothing could be further from the truth  事实并非如此
>
>> He then pauese to allow you to <b class="text-red-500">catch your breath</b>, and awaits your command to continue the tour.
>>
>
> catch one's breath 喘口气

# The Better Half

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Your guide is eager to continue your tour of Ishgard.

House Fortemps Manseravnt

-- As for our next destination...

Alphinaud

-- Mayhap we should decide together. What else can be found nearby?

House Fortemps Manseravnt

-- The Skysteel Manufactory stands to the west. There our engineers conceive and manufacture weapons for use against the dragons. The Holy Stables, where chocobos are trained for war, also lie in that direction. To the north and east can be found the Congregation of Our Knights Most Heavenly, while to the south and east...well... 'Twould be best if you avoided that area.

Alphinaud

-- And why is that?

House Fortemps Manseravnt

-- I...I fear our knights may not be able to ensure your safety in the lowest levels, Master Alphinaud...

Unsavory Character

-- Hold yer nose when ye pass the Brume, little lord! A delicate flower like you is like to wilt in our fumes!

Alphinaud

-- You misjudge me, sir, for I am no lord but a humble traveler.

Unsavory Character

-- Oh, come to see the sights, have ye? Take a turn down the Hoplon and gawp at the statues? Bwahaha! Well, if ye've a mind to learn how the better half live, come and have a drink at the Forgotten Knight─if yer nursemaid'll let ye!

House Fortemps Manseravnt

-- My humblest apologies, Master Alphinaud. Pray pay that drunken lout no mind.

Alphinaud

-- Oh, but I must. It would not do to refuse such a heartfelt invitation. Yes, I simply must see this Forgotten Knight for myself.

-- I trust you see the wisdom in this, Luna. There are few sources of information more abundant than a bustling local hostelry. Not that I expect to hear any news of our missing comrades just yet. Nevertheless, who can say what we might learn of recent events?

Tataru

-- Then I'm coming too!

Manservant:

-- There are several ... gentlemen who appear less than pleased by our presence.
</div>

>> A <b class="text-red-500">delicate</b> flower like you is like to wilt in our fumes!
>>
>
> delicate .adj. 柔和的，清淡的；虚弱的，纤弱的；脆弱的，易碎的；小巧玲珑的，纤细的；微妙的，棘手的；精致的，精巧的
>
>> There are few sources of information more abundant than a <b class="text-red-500">bustling</b> local <b class="text-red-500">hostelry</b>.
>>
>
> bustling .adj. 熙熙攘攘的，忙乱的
>
> hostelry  .n. 客栈
>
>> Not that I expect to hear any news of our missing comrades just yet. Nevertheless, who can say what we might learn of recent events? #ConfusingEnglish#​
>>
>
> （可能的意思：我并不指望通过此就能知道我们走失的伙伴的消息，但是即便如此，我们藉此获知一些最近发生的事却也不是不可能）

<div class="border p-6">
Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- Back so soon from your excursion? I confess, I thought you would want to see more of the city.

Emmanellain

-- I suppose your presence here will serve to make us seem that much more mysterious by association. And few things are more attractive than an air of mystery...

Artoirel

-- You are, of course, free to come and go as you please. Do let us know if you require anything.

---------------------------------------------------------

Alphinaud

-- Mayhap one drink would be... No, no, I mustn't.

Tataru

-- Hm. Hmmm... Yes, I've got a good feeling about this place.

House Fortemps Manseravnt

-- Once more, I must urge you to reconsider. There are several...gentlemen who appear less than pleased by our presence.
</div>

>> Back so soon from your <b class="text-red-500">excursion</b>?
>>
>
> excursion  .n. 短途旅行，远足；涉猎；移动；游览团，远足队；离题；偏移，偏差

<div class="border p-6">
Gibrillont

-- Must say, this is rather unusual. Not just one, but a whole party of fresh new faces in my tavern.

Alphinaud

-- We but recently arrived in Ishgard and are eager to acquaint ourselves with her more notable establishments, Master...?

Gibrillont

-- Gibrillont─just Gibrillont'll do. And I'm flattered you think so highly of my establishment. Can't promise it'll live up to your expectations, but if it's decent food and drink you're after, you could do much worse.

Alphinaud

-- Judging by the number of customers I see, I suspect your fare is rather more than decent. Speaking of your clientele...I could not help but note a difference between those who frequent the upper and lower floors...

Gibrillont

-- Spotted that, did you? Aye, up here you'll find peddlers, porters, off-duty knights, and so forth, dropping in on their way to or from somewhere else. Regulars maybe, but not locals.

-- Folks from the Brume, they tend to congregate downstairs, where we offer a menu more suited to their tastes. Cheaper meals, stronger spirits─all quality, mind, but not the sort of stuff I'd recommend to yourselves.

Alphinaud

-- You speak of the lowest levels, yes? Why do they call them the Brume, if I may ask?

Gibrillont

-- 'Cause when the weather's foul and the brume rolls in thick, it's the poor sods living at the bottom who have to deal with it.

Alphinaud

-- I see...

Gibrillont

-- ...And it's not just the weather. When the wyverns broke through the wards and started tearing up the city, it was the Brume that got the worst of it, while the Pillars enjoyed the protection of the High Houses and the Temple Knights. More'n a few people are still sore about that, mind, which is why, considering your present company, I'd recommend you keep your wits about you if you mean to go below─and something sharp in your boot, just to be sure.

Alphinaud

-- I shall take your words to heart, sir.

House Fortemps Manseravnt

-- Master Alphinaud, I think it would be best if we returned to Fortemps Manor.

Tataru

-- You go on ahead without me. I'm staying for a drink or two!

House Fortemps Manseravnt

-- M-Miss Tataru...I am afraid that is out of the question! My lord the count would never forgive me if I abandoned one of his charges in such a place─least of all a maiden!

Alphinaud

-- What are you up to, Tataru?

Tataru

-- Look around, Alphinaud─this tavern is full of people whose business regularly takes them beyond the Gates of Judgement. With friends like that, I could practically live here and wait for the newest gossip to come to me.

Alphinaud

-- Indeed. But will you be safe here on your own?

Tataru

-- Oh please─do you know how often I looked after the Waking Sands and the Rising Stones by myself? If I had a gil for every unwelcome caller I've driven away, I'd be rich beyond my wildest dreams! I'll be fiiine!

Gibrillont

-- Not that I doubt the lady's knack for fending off unwanted advances, but I'll be damned if I'm going to let anyone lay an unwelcome hand on a patron in my establishment.

Alphinaud

-- That settles it, then. Tataru, Luna and I shall return to the manor for now. Contact me by linkpearl if you require assistance.

Tataru

-- I will!

-- Don't you worry, Luna--if there's any news of our friends, I'll find it!

Emmanellain

-- Is that...? <sniff> <sniff> Aye, it is the smell of mead! Newly come and already sampling the delights of our taverns! Oh yes, I like you. I like you a lot.

Artoirel

-- How do you find our city? Beautiful, is it not?

Honoroit

-- Ah, pray do not concern yourself with me, madam.
</div>

>> I'm <b class="text-red-500">flattered</b> you think so highly of my establishment.
>>
>
> flatter  .v. 奉承，讨好，使高兴
>
>> Can't promise it'll <b class="text-red-500">live up to</b> your expections, , but if it's decent food and drink you're after, you could do much worse.
>>
>
> live up to 不辜负，达到...的标准
>
> be after 追求；寻求
>
> 这里的after是be after，就是追求。后面地do much worse，就是更糟。这句话的意思，如果直译的话，就是，如果你寻求的是像样的食物，那么（假设你不找这个），那么你还可以遇到更糟。所以这句话的意思就是，如果你寻求的是像样的食物，那么现在你所看见的已经足够好了。
>
>> Judging by the number of customers I see, I suspect your fare is rather more than decent.
>>
>
>> I could not help but note a difference between those who frequent the upper and lower floors.
>>
>
> 我不由自主地注意到楼下和楼上人的区别
>
>> up here you'll find peddlers, porters, off-duty knights, <b class="text-red-500">and so forth</b>,<b class="text-red-500"> dropping in on their way to or from somewhere else</b>
>>
>
> and so forth  诸如此类
>
> drop in 顺道来访
>
> 后面半句需要这样理解：drop in | on their way | to or from | somewhere else
>
>> when the weather's <b class="text-red-500">foul</b> and the <b class="text-red-500">brume</b> rolls in thick
>>
>
> brume .n. 雾
>
>> More'n a few people are still <b class="text-red-500">sore</b> about that
>>
>
> sore  .adj. <美，非正式>恼火的，恼怒的；（精神上）痛苦的，困扰的；极度的，非常的
>
>> I am afraid that is <b class="text-red-500">out of the question</b>
>>
>
> out of question 表示某事是不可能的，不能被考虑的
>
>> My lord the count would never forgive me if I abandoned one of his <b class="text-red-500">charges</b> in such a place
>>
>
> charge 有需要照管的人的意思
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">least of all</b> a maiden
>>
>
> least of all 尤其是，特别是
>
>> Aye, it is the smell of <b class="text-red-500">mead</b>!
>>
>
> mead  .n. 蜂蜜酒

<div class="border p-6">
Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- Tell us, then, Master Alphinaud─does Ishgard meet with your expectations?

Alphinaud

-- That which I imagined pales in comparison to the reality. I felt the weight of a thousand years of history with every step I took...and when those steps took me past the scars left by the wyverns in Foundation, I understood how easily that history could end in tragedy.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- The attack was devastating─the casualties...unspeakable. The wyverns did not discriminate. Unarmed men and women...even children were given no quarter. Ser Aymeric has ordered his knights to strengthen our defenses, and each house has been called upon to lend what support it can. There is much to be done, yet alas, able-bodied men and women are in short supply.

Alphinaud

-- Mayhap we could be of assistance, my lord? After all you have done for us, we would welcome any opportunity to repay your kindness.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- That is...a most generous offer, Master Alphinaud. You are guests in my home, to whom I have extended my hospitality without obligation, let, or lien. Nevertheless, Ishgard's need is great, and if you are willing to aid our cause, I cannot well refuse.

Alphinaud

-- Good. What would you ask of us?

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- From what I have heard, you are an intelligent and persuasive young man. Such qualities may prove most useful to us in our efforts to secure provisions from foreign sources─identifying trustworthy suppliers, brokering contracts, and so on.

-- As for you, Mistress Kali... I could ask for no one better than a storied veteran such as yourself─a woman with the capacity to act swiftly and decisively when needed─to aid Artoirel and Emmanellain in their duties.

Artoirel

-- I beg your pardon!? I am more than capable of carrying out my duty by myself. I have no need of our honored guest's assistance!

Emmanellain

-- Now, now, be reasonable, Brother. What manner of fool would say no when a famous hero offered to do his work?

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- Hold your tongues! By the Fury...the two of you will conduct yourselves with dignity befitting your station and show Mistress Kali the respect she deserves! This the woman who slew Gaius van Baelsar and some half-dozen primals besides! She is not here to steal your glory or serve as your errand girl!

-- ...If you can pardon them their impropriety, Mistress Kali, I should be much obliged if you would lend my sons a helping hand.

-- My thanks. Fury willing, they may even learn something from you.
</div>

>> The attack was <b class="text-red-500">devastating</b> -- the <b class="text-red-500">casualties</b>... unspeakable.
>>
>
> devastating  .adj. 毁灭性的，极具破坏力的  devastate  摧毁
>
> casualty .n. 伤亡
>
>> even children were given <b class="text-red-500">no quarter</b>
>>
>
> no quarter 毫不留情：表示不给对方任何宽容或怜悯的机会，通常用于战斗或竞争中
>
>> You are guests in my home, to whom I have extended my hospitality <b class="text-red-500">without obligation, let, or lien</b>.
>>
>
> obligation  .n. 义务，责任
>
> let, or lien 是一个法律术语，"Let"在这里是指租赁或出租的行为，表示主人没有以租约或租赁方式将房屋提供给客人。"Lien"指的是对财产的法定担保权或债权，表示主人没有对客人提供的财产或服务设立任何担保权或债权。
>
> 所以这段话的意思就是：你们是我的客人，但我并不对你们有义务
>
>> if you are willing to aid our <b class="text-red-500">cause</b>, I cannot will refuse.
>>
>
> cause还有事业的意思
>
>> Such qualities may prove most useful to us in our efforts to secure <b class="text-red-500">provisions</b> from foreign sources, identifying trustworthy supplies, <b class="text-red-500">brokering</b> contracts, and so on
>>
>
> provision .n. 提供，供应；准备，预备；（尤指为旅行准备的）食物，必需品（provisions）；条款，规定
>
> brokering  中介
>
>> the two of you will <b class="text-red-500">conduct</b> yourselves with dignity befitting your station
>>
>
> conduct yourself （尤指在公共或正式场合中）举止，表现;为人
>
> 你们两个应该表现出与你们身份地位相称的端庄与尊严
>
>> She is not here to steal your glory or serve as your <b class="text-red-500">errand</b> girl!
>>
>
> errand 差事
>
>> I should be much <b class="text-red-500">obliged</b> if you would lend my sons a helping hand.
>>
>
> obliged adj. <正式>感激，感谢；<正式>被迫做某事，必须做某事

<div class="border p-6">
Artoirel

-- Forgive me, Mistress Kali. I was...unprepared for my father's decision.

Emmanellain

-- I look forward to working with you, Luna! It's going to be grand!

Honoroit

-- (Please look after Lord Emmanellain, Mistress Kali...)

Alphinaud:

-- 'Twould seem we shall not want for employment over the coming days─though that was never in doubt. Our host's initial reluctance to accept our offer of aid was solely for appearance's sake. In truth, he is glad of this opportunity to put us to work. By granting us patronage, House Fortemps has taken a tremendous risk. Until we demonstrate our worth to Ishgard at large, the count will face considerable opposition from his peers in matters great and small. And so he would have us publicly serve Ishgard─whilst simultaneously keeping his sons in check. 'Tis an arrangement we may benefit from in unexpected ways. My own duties may feasibly bring me into contact with people who know something of our missing comrades. And as you go about helping our two lords with their various responsibilities, you will inevitably make new acquaintances in Ishgard, mayhap even new allies. Yes...the more I think on it, the more confident I am that by furthering their goals, we shall further our own.
</div>

>> 'Twould seem we shall not <b class="text-red-500">want</b> for employment over the coming days
>>
>
> want有短缺的意思
>
> want for 缺乏
>
>> Our host's initial reluctance to accept our offer of aid was solely <b class="text-red-500">for apperance's sake</b>
>>
>
> solely for apperance's sake 仅仅是表面上的
>
>> My own duties may feasibly bring me into contact with people who know something of our missing comrades.
>>
>
> feasibly 可行地

<div class="border p-6">
While you are discussing where next to visit, a passerby jeers at Alphinaud, challenging him to visit the Forgotten Knight─a local tavern, by the sound of things─if he wishes to see how the “better half” live. His interest piqued, Alphinaud decides to accept the man's invitation, hoping to learn something of recent events. Speak with Gibrillont, the proprietor of the establishment, and see if there is merit to Alphinaud's plan.

The Forgotten Knight serves two very different classes of customer: the relatively affluent knights and merchants who frequent the upper floor, and the lowborn residents of the Brume who prefer the more affordable fare served downstairs. It would seem the stark division between these two clienteles reflects the divisions beyond the tavern's walls─as the differing experiences of the high- and lowborn during the recent wyvern attack make plain. While the Pillars' defenses were fortified, the Brume and its residents were left to bear the brunt of the Dravanians' fury. A troubling thought indeed... Sensing that the tavern might be just the place to glean useful information─perhaps even some word of the missing Scions' whereabouts─Tataru proposes that she stay behind and ingratiate herself with the regulars. Leave your gregarious friend to her gossip, and return with Alphinaud to Fortemps Manor and the count, who is doubtless eager to hear your impressions of the city.

The scars left by the recent Dravanian attack have not escaped Alphinaud's notice, and Edmont admits that there is much work yet to be done. Sensing the implication, Alphinaud offers the Scions' services, and the count hesitantly but graciously accepts─unlike his two sons, who greet your proposal with a mixture of indignation and mirth. Scolding them for their impropriety, he turns to you once more, and asks that you lend them each a helping hand with their duties.

The count has taken a tremendous risk in granting the Scions his protection, and only by publicly serving Ishgard can you hope to silence his opponents' objections. However, Alphinaud believes that this arrangement may yet benefit the Scions in unexpected ways, such as inviting contact with people outside Ishgard who might feasibly know something of your missing comrades' whereabouts. While he and Tataru focus their efforts on that task, he implores you to see to the young lords' needs, reaffirming that your efforts to further the goals of others will inevitably further the goals of the Scions.
</div>

>> a <b class="text-red-500">passerby</b> <b class="text-red-500">jeers</b> at Alphinaud
>>
>
> passerby 过路人，经过者
>
> jeer .v. 嘲笑，奚落
>
>> His interest piqued, Alphinaud decides tio accept the man's invitation
>>
>
> pique 激起（兴趣或愤怒）
>
>> Speak with Gibrillont, the <b class="text-red-500">proprietor</b> of the establishment, and see if there is <b class="text-red-500">merit</b> to Alphinaud's plan
>>
>
> proprietor .n. 业主，老板，经营者
>
> merit 优点，长处
>
>> It would seem the <b class="text-red-500">stark division</b> between these two clienteles
>>
>
> start division 明显的分界线
>
>> the <b class="text-red-500">differing</b> experiences of the high- and lowborn during the recent wyvern attack <b class="text-red-500">make plain</b>.
>>
>
> differing  .adj. 不同的，有差异的
>
> make plain 阐明
>
>> Tataru proposes that she<b class="text-red-500"> stay behind</b> and <b class="text-red-500">ingratiate</b> herself with the regulars
>>
>
> stay behind 留下，指的是在某个地方继续停留
>
> ingratiate 使迎合，常见于后面接自身再接要迎合的对象，例如这里的ingratiate herself with ....
>
>> Leave your gregarious friend to her gossip （注意这里的friend指的是Tataru）
>>
>
> gregarious  .adj. 爱群居的，爱交际的，合群的
>
>> Alphinaud offers the Scions' services, and the count hesitantly but <b class="text-red-500">graciously</b> accepts
>>
>
> graciously  优雅地
>
>> unlike his two sons, who greet your proposal with a mixture of indignation and mirth（这里指的是两个儿子地两个态度，一个不高兴一个高兴）
>>
>
> indignation 愤怒
>
> mirth 欢笑
>
>> Scolding them for their impropriety,...
>>
>
> scold 责骂，训斥
>
>> he implores you to see to the young lords' needs, reaffirming that <b class="text-red-500">your efforts to further the goals of othes will inevitably further the goals of the Scions</b>.
>>
>
> implore 恳求
>
> reaffirm 再度重申，肯定
>
> your efforts to further the goals of othes will inevitably further the goals of the Scions. 你为他人所做的努力也会推动Scions的目标

‍
