---
title: 2. Over the Wall
---

## Over the Wall

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Lord Artoirel is less than eager to brief you on his mission.

Artoirel

-- Let us begin anew, Mistress Kali. I am Ser Artoirel de Fortemps, eldest son of Count Edmont de Fortemps. You will forgive me my outburst, I hope. I meant no disrespect. I merely consider myself equal to the duties entrusted to me...unlike some. ...Haurchefant has spoken of you often. If you are even half the woman he claims, I shall be glad to have you at my side.

-- To the matter at hand, then: we will be assisting my esteemed compatriots of houses Durendaire and Dzemael. You are aware of our friendly rivalry, I take it? Aye, well, suffice it to say, the prospect of assisting said houses does not fill me with joy. However, it is the will of the Holy See that we set aside our differences at this crucial juncture. But we shall speak more of that anon.

-- First, we must needs secure transport to Falcon's Nest. Let us make for the chocobo stables in Foundation.

--------------------------------

Artoirel

-- I've secured chocobo porters for the two of us. The chocobokeep has yours.

Chocobokeep

-- Greetings, Mistress Kali. I've saddled a black chocobo for your journey to the western highlands, as per Lord Artoirel's instruction. Will this be your first time riding a black chocobo, may I ask? If so, you're in for a treat. As I daresay you know, this particular breed can fly. Given the right conditions, they can carry you quite high, too─even over Snowcloak. You needn't worry about directing the bird, of course. Like all porters, she's trained to carry you to your destination all by herself─so just relax and enjoy the view! Oh, but be sure not to relax your grip, will you? Two hands on the reins at all times, if you please.
</div>

>> You will forgive me my outburst, I hope.
>>
>
> outburst .n.（火山、情感等的）爆发；破裂
>
>> we will be assisting my esteemed compatriots of house Durendaire and Dzemael
>>
>
> compatriot .n. 同胞
>
>> Aye, well, suffice it to say, the <b class="text-red-500">prospect</b> of assisting said houses does not fill me with joy.
>>
>
> suffice it to say  相当于 it is enough to say  无须多说，只需说…就够了；毋须多言
>
> prospect  .n. （发生好事情的）可能，可能性，机会；前景；展望；设想
>
>> But we shall speak more of that anon.
>>
>
> anon .adv. 不久，很快
>
>> I've <b class="text-red-500">saddled</b> a black chocobo for your journey to the western highlands, as per Lord Artoirel's instruction.
>>
>
> saddle  .v. 给（马）装鞍；（驯马师）使（马）参加比赛；使承担（责任、任务），使负重担；跨上马鞍
>
>> Oh, but be sure not to relax your <b class="text-red-500">grip</b>, will you? Two hands on the <b class="text-red-500">reins</b> at all times, if you please.
>>
>
> grip  .n. 紧握；掌握，控制；理解；不打滑，走得稳；手柄；紧握（或抓牢）的方式；
>
> rein  .n. 缰绳；（成人牵引幼儿用的）安全绳套；控制，主宰

</div>
To the frozen wastes of the western highlands, once verdant tracts made pallid by the Calamity...
Beyond the towering wall of ice, to lands long forsaken that the knights of Ishgard strove tirelessly to reclaim...
To the hamlet of Falcon's Nest, once abandoned, now freed of its pall of snow and ash, she came...
</div>

>> once verdant tracts made pallid by the Calamity
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Artoirel

-- The world looks quite different when viewed from the back of an airborne chocobo, does it not? I still find the experience strangely liberating... To business. Ser Redwald is in charge here. He should be expecting us.

Redwald

-- It has been far, far too long, Lord Artoirel. And who might your companion be? 

Artoirel

-- Pray forgive us our lateness, Ser Redwald. I present to you <name:玩家全名>, ward of House Fortemps.

Redwald

-- Ahhh, yes, of course! Lord Drillemont spoke of you. I, Ser Redwald of House Durendaire, do bid you welcome to Falcon's Nest.

Artoirel

-- We are both eager to contribute to the settlement's restoration. How may we be of service?

Redwald

-- Before we speak of that--would I be correct in assuming that Mistress Kali is unfamiliar with our recent history? Then, with your permission, I shall recount the tale for her benefit.

-- As you may know, Falcon's Nest was once a hamlet with a small garrison of knights and some few villagers. And then came the Calamity. When it became clear that the snow would not stop falling, we had no choice but to order a complete withdrawal. The settlement─and the entirety of the western highlands─were to be abandoned.

Artoirel

-- ...Abandoned to the heretics. Lady Iceheart and her kind have walked these lands with impunity ever since.

Redwald

-- Aye, but no longer. The Holy See has commanded the reclamation of the western highlands and the expulsion of heretical elements. Falcon's Nest is key to accomplishing these objectives. But, as you can see, rebuilding the hamlet will be no small undertaking. Our craftsmen require support and protection. Any assistance you can offer will be greatly appreciated.

Artoirel

-- As promised, we of House Fortemps are at your disposal, Ser Redwald. You need but tell us where to begin.
</div>

>> And who might your <b class="text-red-500">companion</b> be?
>>
>
> companion 同伴
>
>> Falcon's Nest was once a <b class="text-red-500">hamlet</b> with a small <b class="text-red-500">garrison</b> of knights and some few villagers
>>
>
> hamlet 小村庄
>
> garrison 驻军
>
>> Lady Iceheart and her kind have walked these lands <b class="text-red-500">with impunity</b> <b class="text-red-500">ever since</b>.
>>
>
> with impunity  不受惩罚
>
> ever since 自从：表示从某个时间点开始，一直持续到现在或某个特定的时间。
>
>> The Holy See has commanded the reclamation of the western highlands and the <b class="text-red-500">expulsion</b> of <b class="text-red-500">heretical</b> elements.
>>
>
> expulsion 驱逐
>
> heretical 异端邪说的
>
>> Falcon's Nest is key to <b class="text-red-500">accomplishing these objectives</b>
>>
>
> accomplish objective 达成目标
>
>> rebuilding the hamlet will be no small undertaking.
>>
>
> undertake .v. 承担  unertaking  .n. 任务，事业
>
> no small undertaking  不是一件小事

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Ser Artoirel de Fortemps, eldest son of Count Edmont de Fortemps, did not expect to have company on his mission to aid houses Durendaire and Dzemael─a prospect he was not particularly enthusiastic about in the first place, given the ancient rivalries between Ishgard's noble families. Worse, in electing to install you at his son's side, the count has given Artoirel cause to believe that his father does not trust him to carry out his duties alone. Regardless, the knight means to respect Edmont's wishes, and bids you join him at the chocobo stables in Foundation, where you will secure transport to Falcon's Nest.

You learn that Ser Artoirel has already procured a pair of black chocobo porters to carry the two of you beyond Snowcloak and into the western highlands. Secure your belongings and brace yourself for what promises to be a memorable journey.

You arrive in Falcon's Nest none the worse for wear. Speak with Lord Artoirel and see what he would have you do next.

After cursory small talk, Lord Artoirel strides off to look for Ser Redwald, who has command in Falcon's Nest. Follow the young lord and introduce yourself to the knight in charge.

Ser Redwald recounts the tragic fate of Falcon's Nest, which was abandoned during the Ishgardian withdrawal shortly after the Calamity. Happily, it seems the time has come to reclaim what was lost, and through deeds great and small, the House Durendaire knight hopes you will help to facilitate the settlement's reconstruction.
</div>

>> <b class="text-red-500">a prospect</b> he was not particularly enthusiastic about in the first place, given the ancient rivalries between Ishgard's noble families.
>>
>
> 这可能是因为他首先不怎么对这事抱有热情，考虑到这些贵族们由来已久的恩怨
>
>> You learn that Ser Artoirel has already <b class="text-red-500">procured</b> a pair of black chocobo porters to carry the two of you beyond Snowcloak
>>
>
> procure 设法取得；（努力）取得，获得
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">Secure</b> your belongings and brace yourself <b class="text-red-500">for what promises</b> to be a momorable journey.
>>
>
> 收拾好你的行李，准备好迎接这段难忘的旅程
>
> brace oneself 做好准备：为应对困难或不愉快的事情而做好心理准备，使自己变得更加坚强和有力。
>
> promise to be  表示肯定会做某事
>
> * He made a promise to be there on time for the meeting. 他承诺会准时参加会议。
>
>> You arrive in Falcon's Nest <b class="text-red-500">none the worse</b> for wear.
>>
>
> none the worse 毫发无损：表示某人或某物在经历某种困难或危险的情况后，没有受到任何伤害或损失。
>
>> After <b class="text-red-500">cursory</b> small talk, Lord Artoirel <b class="text-red-500">strides off</b> to look for Ser Redwald,
>>
>
> cursory 粗略的
>
> stride off 走（这里的意思就是：经过与Artoirel短暂的寒暄之后，Artoirel就大步朝Redwald走去了）

## Work in Progress

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Ser Redwald would have you assist the craftsmen rebuilding the fortifications of Falcon's Nest.

Artoirel

-- Ser Redwald and I are discussing how to deal with the heretics in this region. In the meantime, I ask that you see to other matters.

Redwald

-- Several craftsmen in service to House Dzemael are contributing to the restoration of Falcon's Nest. These men and women are quite skilled at building and repairing fortifications, but their progress has been hampered by a number of factors. Rothe, their foreman, tells me he has need of a woman with your talents. Would you be so kind as to seek him out?

-- Have you spoken with Rothe yet? He was asking after an assistant not long ago.

Rothe

-- Hm? Yes, I'm Rothe, and who might you be...?

-- Ah, the promised help! Glad to have you aboard! I've the honor of overseein' this fine mess you see before you. Sent me over on one of them black birds, same as you, to build and mend and tell others how to build and mend. But Fury take me, this ice! It's bloody unnatural how fast it forms! It's icicle sprites, I tell you. Mark my words, there're pockets of 'em here and there, just waitin' for me to turn my back so they can sneak out and do their dirty work! So I need you to search the hamlet and put an end to it. If you stand watch long enough, you're sure to find 'em.

-- I'm not mad, dammit! It's those bloody icicle sprites, gallivantin' around when no one's lookin'. Stand still long enough and you'll see!

-- Hah! Now there's a woman what looks like she's found her marks! You're just the sort we need around here─the kind that'll hop to when she sees a task undone!
</div>

>> Ser Redwald would have you assist the craftsmen rebuilding the <b class="text-red-500">fortifications</b> of Falcon's Nest
>>
>
> fortification .n. 防御工事；碉堡
>
>> It's those bloody icicle sprites, <b class="text-red-500">gallivantin'</b> around when no one's lookin'.
>>
>
> gallivant   .v. 闲逛；与异性闲荡

<div class="border-4 p-6">
According to Ser Redwald, Rothe, the foreman who coordinates the efforts of the craftsmen rebuilding the fortifications of Falcon's Nest, has need of a woman with your talents. Speak with the man himself to learn more.

Rothe is convinced that errant icicle sprites residing in the hamlet are the cause of recent delays. Keep watch for the sprites and slay them if they appear.

It would seem that Rothe was correct, as you discover and slay numerous icicle sprites within the walls of Falcon's Nest. Deliver the good news to the foreman.

Rothe has nothing but praise for your deeds, deeming you the sort of woman needed at a time like this. If your other tasks go as smoothly as this, perhaps your time in Falcon's Nest will pass more quickly than expected...
</div>

>> the <b class="text-red-500">foreman</b> who coordinates the efforts of the craftsmen rebuilding the fortifications of Falcon's Nest
>>
>
> foreman .n. 领班，工头
>
>> Rothe is convinced that <b class="text-red-500">errant</b> icicle sprites residing in the hamlet are the cause of recent delays.
>>
>
> errant .adj. 不定的；周游的；错误的；偏离正路的；（尤指离家出走而）犯错的，行为不当的，出格的

## The First and Foremost

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Good help is hard to find--a sad truth that Rothe knows well.

Rothe

-- You're a dab hand at warcraft, I can tell. Not that I've any skill at arms to speak of, mind, but it doesn't take an expert to recognize expertise. Be a waste to keep you to myself when there're others out what need help same as me, so if you're keen to keep on doin' what you've done, I'd ask you to head north to the Pike─the bloody huge statue out in the wastes, if you've never been. Mason by the name of Thierremont is out there tendin' to the thing. Good man, Thierremont, but I reckon he's taken on too much work for one. Might be there's somethin' you can do for him.

-- The Pike's due north of here. Just keep goin' and you'll see it in due time.

Thierremont

-- Hail to you, traveler! What brings you out this way?...Hm? Foreman Rothe bid you assist me? Well, far be it from me to turn down a helping hand! I've been tasked with the restoration of this sculpture. Five years of neglect have not been kind, to say the least. Fortunately, I've just the thing for it─rather, those deepeyes have it. If you could slay three and bring me their bristles, I would be in your debt.

-- My work is far from finished, but if you could shear the bristles from three deepeyes for me, it would be a tremendous help.

Dark Bristles (Item)

-- Thick, deep-grey bristles sheared from a wild beast.

Thierremont

-- There you are. Have you the bristles?

-- Ahhh, feel how coarse that is? That's why they're perfect for scrubbing the soot from this statue. Beautiful, isn't it? The spitting image of Haldrath, first of the Azure Dragoons and one of Ishgard's founding fathers... A symbol of everything the Dravanians despise, which is why they've taken to searing it with dragon fire every time they pass by. But no longer will we suffer this desecration of our nation's hero. Soon this statue will be as it once was─a proud, shining testament to the determination of Ishgard, and a message to the heretics that we have returned. The work may be hard and the conditions harsh, but as a proud Ishgardian, I could ask for no greater honor.
</div>

>> The first and <b class="text-red-500">Foremost</b>
>>
>
> foremost .adj. 最重要的
>
>> You're <b class="text-red-500">a dab hand</b> at warcraft
>>
>
> a dab hand 内行，熟手：指在某个领域或技能上非常熟练、擅长的人。
>
>> Not that I've any skill at arms to speak of, mind, but it doesn't take an expert to recognize expertise.
>>
>
> 一个不擅长战斗的人也知道（你很善于战斗）
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">Mason</b> by the name of Thierremont...
>>
>
> mason .n. 泥瓦匠，石工
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">Hail</b> to you, traveler!
>>
>
> hail <古> 表示问候，hail to you 向你问好，向你致敬
>
>> far be it from me to <b class="text-red-500">turn down</b> a helping hand
>>
>
> turn down 拒绝，这里的意思就是，“我”可不会拒绝帮助。
>
>> Five years of neglect have not been kind, <b class="text-red-500">to say the least</b>.
>>
>
> to say the least 至少可以说：用于表示某种情况或品质比实际描述的更为严重或显著，表示说得保守一些
>
> 因此，这句的意思应该是，这尊雕像起码已经5年没人管过了
>
>> If you could slay three and bring me their <b class="text-red-500">bristles</b>, I would be <b class="text-red-500">in your debt</b>.
>>
>
> bristle .n. 钢鬃毛，刷子毛
>
> in your debt 本身的意思是欠你的债；这里应该被衍生出了感激你的意思
>
>> Ahhh, feel how <b class="text-red-500">coarse</b> that is? That's why they're perfect for <b class="text-red-500">scrubbing</b> the <b class="text-red-500">soot</b> from his statue.
>>
>
> coarse  .adj. 粗糙
>
> scrub .v. 擦洗
>
> soot .n. 烟尘，煤灰
>
>> The spitting image of Haldrath
>>
>
> spitting image 一模一样：形容两个人或物非常相似，几乎无法区分。（这句开始Thierremont向我们介绍雕像，人物是Haldrath，初代龙骑士，伊修加德的缔造者之一）
>
>> A symbol of everything the Dravanians <b class="text-red-500">despise</b>, which is why they've taken to <b class="text-red-500">searing</b> it with dragon fire every time they pass by.
>>
>
> despise .v. 鄙视，厌恶
>
> sear .v. 烤焦，使枯萎
>
>> But no longer will we suffer this <b class="text-red-500">desecration</b> of our nation's hero
>>
>
> desecration .n. 亵渎神圣；污辱神物
>
>> a pround, shining <b class="text-red-500">testament</b> to the <b class="text-red-500">determination</b> of Ishgard
>>
>
> testament .n. 证词，证言
>
> determination .n. 决心

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Disinclined to keep you to himself, Rothe implores you to pay a visit to Thierremont, a mason tending a gargantuan statue north of Falcon's Nest known as the Pike. Travel to the statue and see if the mason is in need of assistance.

Thierremont has been tasked with the restoration of the sculpture, for which the dark bristles of deepeyes would be most useful. Slay three of the beasts and shear their bristles for the mason.

With your customary flair, you dispatch several deepeyes and shear their bristles. Deliver them to Thierremont.

More than a mere statue of Haldrath, the first Azure Dragoon, the Pike is a proud symbol of Ishgardian defiance. Though the work may be hard and the conditions harsh, Thierremont could ask for no greater honor than to tend the monument.
</div>

>> a mason tending a <b class="text-red-500">gargantuan</b> statue north of Falcon's Nest known as the Pike
>>
>
> gargantuan .adj. 庞大的，巨大的
>
>> Slay three of the beasts and <b class="text-red-500">shear</b> their bristles for the mason.
>>
>
> shear .v. 剪（羊或其他动物的）毛；剪（头发）
>
>> With your <b class="text-red-500">customary</b> <b class="text-red-500">flair</b>
>>
>
> customary .adj. 惯常的
>
> flair .n. 天赋
>
>> More than a mere statue of Haldrath, the first Azure Dragoon, the Pike is a proud symbol of Isgardian <b class="text-red-500">deflance</b>.
>>
>
> deflance   .n. 抗争；拒绝服从

## From on High

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Before you return to Falcon's Nest, Thierremont has a favor to ask.

Thierremont

-- Are you for Falcon's Nest? If so, I've a favor to ask. There's this knight, Ser Ysaudore, stationed at the Anvil to the west of here. She's always treated me with kindness and respect─more than I deserve, to be honest... Anyroad, while you were away, she came through on patrol, and I think she might have left a package behind. It's a bit of a detour, but would you mind returning it to her? My thanks to you, friend.

-- You should be able to find Ser Ysaudore at the Anvil, to the west of here. It's not on the way to Falcon's Nest, I know, but, well...I'm fairly certain that belongs to her, and since I can't leave the Pike unattended...

Ice-crusted Bundle (Item)

-- A once-hot package unintentionally left by Ysaudore to cool in the frigid highland winds.

Ysaudore

-- What's that? A package? I haven't the foggiest what you're talking about.

-- Confound it, that fool of a... <sigh> What a waste. It was a gift, adventurer. Thierremont labors day and night without regard for his own well-being. At the very least, he ought to try to eat better. ...Why not simply give it to him? By the Fury, have you no sense of decorum? A highborn knight cannot be seen favoring a lowborn mason in such a manner! Nevertheless, I appreciate your concern, as well as your willingness to assist Thierremont. May your journey back to Falcon's Nest be safe and swift. Pray give my regards to Ser Redwald.

-- Caught between a pike and anvil of my own─ Oh, you're still here! Ahem, er... Pray communicate my warmest regards to Ser Redwald...and nothing else.

-------------------------------------

Redwald

-- I must applaud your initiative, Mistress Kali. Rothe tells me you have been quite busy. Alas, we have not the time to thank you properly. I have a task to which I would commit all able-bodied men and women -- you and Lord Artoirel included.
</div>

>> It's a bit of a <b class="text-red-500">detour</b>, ...
>>
>
> detour .n. 绕行，迂回；
>
>> I haven't <b class="text-red-500">the foggiest</b> what you're talking about
>>
>
> have the foggiest... 有所了解：表示对某事物有一定程度的认识或理解。常用于否定句中，表示对某事物一无所知。
>
>> have you no sense of decorum
>>
>
> decorum 礼仪
>
>> A highborn knigt cannot be seen <b class="text-red-500">favoring</b> a lowborn mason in such a manner!
>>
>
> （这里的favor指的是偏袒）
>
>> I must applaud your <b class="text-red-500">initiative</b>, ...
>>
>
> applaud .v. 鼓掌，赞许
>
> initiative .n. 措施，倡议；主动性，积极性；主动权
>
>> I have a task to which I would commit all able-bodied men and women
>>
>
> commit .v. 调拨，投入

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Thierremont has always appreciated the kindness shown to him by Ser Ysaudore, a knight stationed at the observation post to the west known as the Anvil. For that reason, he wishes to return to her a package he believes she left behind by accident during her last visit. Deliver the package as bade and see if Ser Ysaudore recognizes it.

Torn between decorum and her desire to do right by the hardworking mason, Ser Ysaudore deliberately left behind the package of extra rations, believing that Thierremont would understand her gesture. Alas, he did not, and now the food has gone to waste. As there is nothing to be done, return to Falcon's Nest and report to Ser Redwald.

Tales of your various deeds have reached Ser Redwald's ears, giving him cause to applaud your initiative. However, he has not the time to thank you properly, as a sudden development has him scrambling to dispatch every able-bodied man and woman.
</div>

>> Deliver the package as <b class="text-red-500">bade</b> and see if Ser Ysaudore recognizes it.
>>
>
> bade .v. 命令；道别；出价；投标；恳求，努力争取；叫牌（bid的过去式）
>
>> Torn between decorum and her desire to do right by the hardworking mason, Ser Ysaudore deliberately left behind the package of extra rations, believing that Thierremont would understand her gesture.
>>
>
> ration .n. 配给量，定量；（尤指发给作战士兵的）口粮配给，口粮定量；合理（正常）的量；粮食供应，食物储备；应得之量
>
>> as a sudden development has him <b class="text-red-500">scrambling</b> to dispatch every able-bodied man and woma
>>
>
> scramble  .v.（迅速而吃力地）爬，攀登；不规则地生长；匆忙地移动；仓促完成（困难的事）；匆忙穿（衣）

## Reconnaissance Lost

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- In times such as these, Ser Redwald is glad to have veterans like you to whom he can turn.

Redwald

-- Calm as ever, even when you must surely sense the gravity of the situation. A veteran through and through, just as Lord Drillemont said. Good. We have lost contact with a reconnaissance party sent north to Riversmeet in search of the heretics' hideaway. Whether they were attacked or met with some other misfortune, we know not. But regardless of the cause, we must act quickly, for this is a harsh, unforgiving land which can claim─and has claimed─the lives of many men. To ensure we find our missing knights as quickly as possible, I have assigned each party a different area to search. You and Lord Artoirel will be working together. Seek him out when you are ready to depart, and good luck.

-- Lord Artoirel has a map with the assigned areas. Bring our knights home, Mistress Kali.

Artoirel

-- It seems we have been assigned the area near Camp Riversmeet, Mistress Kali. Lest you are unaware, the camp was one of many our knights were forced to abandon when we withdrew from the Coerthas western highlands─one of many sacrifices made in the wake of the Calamity. 'Twould not surprise me if our knights took shelter there. There is but one way to find out, though. Let us be off!

-------------------------------------------

Artoirel

-- There, below us─Camp Riversmeet, or what remains of it. I see no way to descend the cliffs safely from here. Should we fall, the beasts below would make short work of us. Come─I know a path to the riverbed below, east of the Black Iron Bridge.

-- If the reconnaissance party came this way, I see no sign of it. Still, it is possible that recent storms have obscured their trail, or that they took an alternate route to Camp Riversmeet. Until we investigate the camp itself, we cannot be certain. We must press on.

-- Hmmm... The camp appears to be deserted, and yet I cannot shake the feeling that... Hm. Mistress Kali, pray search the camp while I stand watch. We dare not let the enemy take us unawares.

-------------------------------------------

Artoirel

-- Are you all right? I heard sounds of a struggle.

Reconnaissance Party Knight

-- Thank...thank the Fury... I thought no one would come...

Artoirel

-- Three heretics slain and one knight saved, just like that. You certainly live up to your reputation, Mistress Kali.

-- What happened here, ser? Is there no one else?

Reconnaissance Party Knight

-- We were caught in a furious blizzard north of here, my lord. <cough> <wheeze> Naught but white all around...until we saw shapes moving towards us─running towards us, with naked steel in their hands. I cut down a few of the bastards who came close, but the others... There was shouting and screaming, but after a while I could only hear unfamiliar voices... I found my way to the camp, hoping to hide while the storm passed.

Artoirel

-- But the heretics tracked you here.

Reconnaissance Party Knight

-- Aye... <cough> <cough> ...My lord, the heretics' hideaway lies somewhere to the north. We must move quickly, before the snow buries all traces of their passing. For my brothers, we...we must... <cough> <wheeze>

Artoirel

-- Have faith, ser. Justice will be done. But first, we must see you to safety.
</div>

>> Reconnaissance Lost
>>
>
> Reconnaissance .n. [军]侦察；勘测（等于 reconnoissance）；搜索；事先考查
>
>> In times such as these, Ser Redwald is glad to have veterans like you to whom he can turn.
>>
>
>> Calm <b class="text-red-500">as ever</b>, even when you must surely sense the gravity of the situation.
>>
>
> as ever 一如既往：表示某人或某事的特点、行为等与过去一样，没有改变。
>
>> A vetern <b class="text-red-500">through and through</b>, just as Lord Drillemiont said. Good.
>>
>
> through and through 彻头彻尾：表示某种特质或品质在某人或某物中非常明显，完全地，全然地。
>
>> We have lost contact with a reconnaissance party sent north to <b class="text-red-500">Riversmeet</b> in search of the heretics's <b class="text-red-500">hideaway</b>.
>>
>
> hideaway .n. 潜伏处；隐匿处；退隐处
>
> Riversmeet，这个单词不是标准单词，是一个地名，但是可以通过rivers和meet推测出这个地名可能表示一个河道汇口的意思。
>
>> for this is a harsh, unforgiving land which can <b class="text-red-500">claim</b> -- and has <b class="text-red-500">claimed</b> -- the <b class="text-red-500">lives</b> of many men.
>>
>
> claim lives 夺去生命：指事故、灾难或疾病等导致人们死亡。
>
>> 'Twould noy surprise me if our knights took shelter there.
>>
>
> shelter .n. 居所，住处；（尤指用以躲避风雨或攻击的）遮蔽物，庇护处；遮蔽，庇护；（人或动物）收容所
>
>> Should we fall, the beasts below would <b class="text-red-500">make short work </b>of us.
>>
>
> make short work of 迅速完成：指在很短的时间内轻松地完成某项任务或工作。这里接us，指的就是快速把我们干掉

<div class="border-4 p-6">
A reconnaissance party sent north to Riversmeet in search of the heretics' hideaway has gone missing, and though he knows not the cause, Ser Redwald believes time is of the essence. Accordingly, he has dispatched several parties to search for the missing knights, each assigned to a different area. You and Lord Artoirel are to comprise one such party. Seek out your partner and speak with him when you are ready to depart.

Lord Artoirel informs you that you are to search the area near Camp Riversmeet. Like Falcon's Nest, it was abandoned following the Calamity, but that does not discount the possibility that the missing knights may have taken shelter there. Follow the young lord to the cliffs overlooking the camp from the south.

Save for several wild beasts, you see no signs of life in the camp below. As there is no safe way to descend the cliffs, Lord Artoirel bids you follow him to a path leading to the riverbed below, east of the Black Iron Bridge.

Pausing briefly, Lord Artoirel looks for signs of the reconnaissance party's passing, but finds none. Yet given the fierce snows, he says, that is no guarantee that they did not pass this way. In any case, you have yet to investigate the camp itself. Lord Artoirel presses on, and so must you.

You come upon a band of heretics poised to slay one of the missing knights. Fixing you with murderous glares, they attack, but are no match for the Warrior of Light. The knight has yet to rise to his feet. See if there is anything you can do.

Drawn by the sounds of struggle, Lord Artoirel abandons his watch outside the camp and rushes to your side. Together, you question the wounded knight, who appears to be the sole survivor of the missing reconnaissance party, which was ambushed by the heretics in the midst of a furious blizzard. Convinced that the heretics' hideaway lies somewhere to the north, he begs you to help him continue the search─though he is clearly in no condition to do so...
</div>

>> You and Lord Artoirel are to <b class="text-red-500">comprise</b> one such party.
>>
>
> comprise .v. 包括，包含；构成，组成
>
>> You <b class="text-red-500">come upon</b> a band of heretics <b class="text-red-500">poised to</b> slay one of the missing knights.
>>
>
> come upon 偶然遇见：意外地发现或遇到某人或某物。
>
> poised to  准备好做某事：表示某人或某事物已经做好了准备，随时可以采取行动。
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">Fixing</b> you with <b class="text-red-500">murderous</b> <b class="text-red-500">glares</b>, they attack, but are no match for the Warrior or Light.
>>
>
> fix 有盯着的意思
>
> murderous .adj. 蓄意谋杀的，凶残的；暴怒的；严酷的，剧烈的
>
> glare .n. 刺眼的强光；怒视；密切关注；<古>耀眼（或炫耀的）外表，俗艳
>
>> The knight has yet to <b class="text-red-500">rise to his feet</b>.
>>
>
> rise to feet 站起来
>
>> Together, you question the wounded knight, who appears to be the sole survivor of the missing reconnnaissance  
>> party, which was ambushed by the heretics in the midst of a furious blizzard.
>>
>
> ambush .v. 伏击

## At the End of Our Hope

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Lord Artoirel seems loath to forgo any opportunity to locate the heretics' hiding place..

Artoirel

-- He has the right of it, Mistress Kali. Whatever remains of the heretics' trail will be gone with the next snowfall. But we cannot very well leave our friend here... I will see him to Falcon's Nest and gather reinforcements. In the meantime, I would have you search the area to the north of the camp for signs of the attack. Should you pick up the heretics' trail, do not wait for me─follow it back to their lair forthwith, being sure to leave me some clear footprints. ...I realize that this plan may place you in considerable danger, but I see no alternative.

-- Rest assured we will not be far behind. And Luna...thank you.

-- Do not concern yourself with our wounded man. When he has caught his breath, I shall see him safely back to Falcon's Nest.
</div>

>> Lord Artoirel seems to <b class="text-red-500">loath</b> to forgo any opportunity to locate the heretics' hiding place.
>>
>
> loath .v. 不愿意，厌恶
>
> forgo .v. 放弃（令人愉悦之物）

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Iceheart

-- Looking for me, I presume.

Midgardsormr

-- Ahhh, the child who glimpsed the truth.

Iceheart

-- No, it cannot be!

Midgardsormr

-- She cameth unto me, as didst thou. Alike in gifts, yet set upon different paths.

Iceheart

-- He speaks true, Warrior of Light. Like you, I have been blessed with the Echo. The visions terrified me at first. They came without warning. I wondered what I had done to deserve them... But I had no time to ponder such things once the Calamity came. The land turned against us, and in a matter of hours, Falcon's Nest was buried under ten fulms of ice and snow. We had no choice but to flee for Ishgard. We came to the wall, and while we searched for a way through, there was an avalanche. And then I was alone. So I set forth for Dravania. I knew full well what might happen were I found, but I could not survive on my own. I was found, of course─and not by a mere dragon, but by the great wyrm Hraesvelgr!

-- And it was then that I knew why I had been given this gift, for with it I heard his voice, and saw the truth through his eyes! I was chosen to deliver this revelation to the people─to bring dragon and man together, as they once were, and should ever be!

Me

-- (Option 1) Killing civilians won't bring them together!
-- (Option 2) What of the innocents who died when you attacked Foundation?

Iceheart

-- It wasn't supposed to be like that! You have to believe me! It was...beyond my control... Children taught to fear the skies, who saw their loved ones slaughtered... Yet the Dravanians─though they know where the fault truly lies─fell upon them with such fury...

Midgardsormr

-- Men die, and their children forget. But we are everlasting. To us, then is as now. Thou canst not comprehend the violation. The outrage. The fury.

Iceheart

-- I will make this right. I am neither a saint nor a savior─just another sinner. Yet I will not forsake this cause. I cannot. I will see this cycle broken and peace restored. I... We can do naught else, for we are now as one...
</div>

>> The visions <b class="text-red-500">terrified</b> me at first.
>>
>
> terrify .v. 使害怕，使恐惧
>
>> Falcon's Nest was buried under ten fulms of ice and snow.
>>
>
> fulm 这个词是一个ffxiv中的虚构词汇，应该是某种度量
>
>> I am neither a saint nor a savior -- just another sinner. Yet I will not <b class="text-red-500">forsake</b> this cause.
>>
>
> forsake .v. 抛弃，离开（尤指不履行责任)；摒弃，离开（尤指喜爱的事物）；离开，告别（某地）

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Artoirel

-- Mistress Kali! Praise Halone, you are alive! We came as swiftly as we could, but I see we are too late...

-- So they were lurking in the cellar of this farmhouse... 'Tis a pity Lady Iceheart escaped, but we must not let that detract from your accomplishment! We have them on the run!

-- You have dealt our foes a telling blow this eve, my friend, and I shall see that your efforts are recognized.

House Durendair Knight

-- We are still searching the area, miss, but the only heretics we have found thus far are the ones you left behind.

Artoirel

-- Establishing an outpost in so remote a location could not have been easy. Tenacious devils.
</div>

>> So they were lurking in the <b class="text-red-500">cellar</b> of this farmhouse...
>>
>
> cellar .n. 地窖
>
>> 'Tis a pity Lady Iceheart escaped, but we must not let that <b class="text-red-500">detract</b> from your accomplishment!
>>
>
> detract from sth. （在价值、美誉度等方面）对…产生不利影响;眨低;有损乎
>
>> You have dealt our foes <b class="text-red-500">a telling blow</b> this eve, my friend,
>>
>
> telling .adj. 强有力的，有重大影响的
>
> blow .v. 打击（注意这个不是below）
>
>> Establishing an outpost in so remote a location could not have been easy. Tenacious devils.
>>
>
> outpost 前哨
>
> Tenacious .adj. 顽强的，坚韧不拔的；稳固的，牢固的；（观点、信念）根深蒂固的，深入人心的；顽强的，坚忍不拔的

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Whatever trail the heretics left is all but certain to be obliterated by the next snowfall, and with it, any hope of tracking the heretics to their refuge. Accordingly, Lord Artoirel assigns you the unenviable task of following the trail alone, while he delivers the wounded knight to Falcon's Nest and rallies reinforcements. Plainly, the young lord is either supremely confident of your abilities, or eager to be rid of you. Begin your search in the area north of Camp Riversmeet, where the knight said the ambush took place.

Within the secret lair hidden below Gorgagne Mills, you are reunited with an old foe: the Lady Iceheart. Before violence can erupt, however, Midgardsormr reveals himself to the heretic leader, who is shocked to see the ancient wyrm in your company. Momentarily sapped of her will to fight, she reveals that she too is blessed with the Echo, and that it allowed her to see the truth of the Dragonsong War through the eyes of Hraesvelgr, one of the first brood. As she shares this revelation, her voice swells with renewed conviction...but when you subsequently remind her of the indiscriminate slaughter committed by the Dravanians whom she helped to breach the wards, her doubts soon resurface. Though she will not forsake her cause, she swears to make things right. But how and when, she does not say...

Moments too late, Lord Artoirel arrives with reinforcements, and the knights set about searching the area. They find no sign of any remaining heretics, however, nor of the Lady Iceheart, whom you allowed to escape.

With the tiniest hint of respect, Lord Artoirel contemplates how difficult it must have been to establish an outpost in so remote a place. In any case, there is little reason to remain, and he seems eager to return to Falcon's Nest.
</div>

>> Whatever trail the heretics left is all but certain to be <b class="text-red-500">obliterated</b> by the next snowfall, and with it, any hope of tracking the heretics to their refuge.
>>
>
> obliterate .v. 消灭，摧毁；涂抹，遮蔽；(从头脑中) 抹掉；盖销（尤指邮票）
>
>> Accordingly, Lord Artoirel assigns you the unenviable task of following the trail alone
>>
>
> unenviable .adj. 不值得羡慕的，不值得嫉妒的
>
>> Before violence can erupt,..
>>
>
> erupt .v. 爆发
>
>> Momentarily sapped of her will to fight, she reveals that she too is blessed with the Echo,and that is allowed her to see the truth of the Dragonsong War through the eyes of Hraesvelgr, one of the first brood.
>>
>
> Momentarily 片刻地，暂时地
>
> sap 有削弱的意思
>
>> As she shares this revelation, her voice swells with renewed conviction... but when you subsequently remind her of the indiscriminate slaughter committed by the Dravanians whom she helped to breach the wards, her doubts soon resurface.
>>
>
> conviction  .n. 定罪，判罪；坚定的信仰，深信的观点；确信，深信
>
> resurface .v. 重新露面；浮上水面
>
>> With the tiniest hint of respect, Lord Artoirel contemplates how difficult it must have been to establish an outpost in so remote a place.
>>
>
> 这里的respect就是尊重的意思，指的是Artoirel本着对工作的尊重，但是痕迹是tiniest的。
>
> contemplate .v. 考虑

## Knights Be Not Proud

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Lord Artoirel would rather not linger without cause.

Artoirel

-- The knights have matters here well in hand. Let us return to Falcon's Nest and share our discoveries with Ser Redwald. Come! After tracking heretics across malms of ice and snow, I would say you are due a few hours' rest next to a warm fire.

House Durendair Knight

-- We'll take care of the rest, miss. If there are any heretics hiding hereabouts, we'll soon root them out.

Redwald

-- Lord Artoirel, Mistress Kali! Full glad am I to see you both hale and healthy. What news?

-- ...You mean to say you hunted the heretics down on your own, and slew them before reinforcements could arrive? By the Fury!

Artoirel

-- I believe we have made great strides toward purging these lands of heretics─and I mean to say as much when I deliver my report to my father and the Holy See.

Redwald

-- As will I, Lord Artoirel. May it serve to remind our superiors what houses Durendaire and Fortemps could achieve through continued cooperation.

Artoirel

-- Indeed. I trust you and your knights are content to handle the rest?

Redwald

-- We most certainly are, my lord. During your short time with us, you and Mistress Kali have accomplished far more than I had thought possible. I cannot in good conscience impose upon you any longer. Pray return to Ishgard with my thanks.

Artoirel

-- As you wish, Ser Redwald. We thank you for your hospitality.

Redwald

-- Mayhap your deeds here will serve to demonstrate the folly in continuing to exclude foreigners from our lands. With more hardworking men and women like you, Ishgard would be much the stronger.
</div>

>> I believe we have made great strides toward purging these lands of heretics─and I mean to say as much when I deliver my report to my father and the Holy See.
>>
>
>> After tracking heretics across malms of ice and snow
>>
>
> 这里的malm可能跟fulm一样，是一个ffxiv的专有度量

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Artoirel

-- Mistress Kali ...I would speak plain. From the first, I questioned your motives and your competence─unjustly, I now realize.

-- Rumors have a way of growing more fantastic as they spread, and quite frankly, those surrounding you beggar belief. But Haurchefant swore that all the stories were true. He championed your cause and begged Father to grant you patronage... And he duly listened, because for all his wisdom, he has never been able to say no to my dear half-brother─the legacy of my father's sole indiscretion.

-- Mother hated him, of course. Even on her deathbed, she refused to acknowledge him. And...to be honest, she was not alone in her feelings.

-- But that is not the worst of it. ...At Camp Riversmeet, when we came upon the wounded knight, I knew immediately that one of us would have to pursue the heretics alone. An onerous task, fraught with danger... And there you were─the savior of Eorzea and honored guest of House Fortemps. My new comrade-in-arms. Haurchefant's dear friend.

-- I told myself it was to be a test, but part of me...part of me hoped that you would fail. Yet you accepted the task without a word of protest, nor any sign of fear. And you duly tracked the enemy down, faced him alone, and lived to tell the tale.

-- Plainly, Haurchefant had the right of it all along. That I doubted your strength bespeaks mine own weakness. But I will not doubt you again, Mistress Kali, on that you have my word.
</div>

>> I questioned your <b class="text-red-500">motives</b> and your <b class="text-red-500">competence</b>
>>
>
> motive  .n. 动机，目的，原因
>
> competence .n. 能力，胜任
>
>> Rumors have a way of growing more fantastic as they spread, and quite frankly, those surrounding you <b class="text-red-500">beggar belief</b>.
>>
>
> （重点解释后半句，quite frankly坦率地说，those指代前面rumors，surrounding you意思是有关你的，beggar belief是一个习语，意思是匪夷所思，难以置信，考虑到2.0主角的各种事迹，Artoirel有这种想法其实并不奇怪）
>
> * **beggar belief/description: ** to be impossible to believe or describe 非言语所能形容;难以置信
>
>> He <b class="text-red-500">championed</b> your cause and begged Father to grant you patronage.
>>
>
> champion .v. 支持，拥护
>
>> And he <b class="text-red-500">duly</b> listened, because for all his wisdom, he has never been able to say no to my dear half-brother -- the legacy of my father's sole indiscretion.
>>
>
> （注意这里的he指的是福尔唐伯爵，duly本身的意思是不出所料地，后面的because在解释为什么是duly，福尔唐伯爵从来没有对奥尔什方说不，这里把奥尔什方称作"my dear half-brother"，推测可知奥尔什方是福尔唐的私生子。这句话除了说奥尔什方外，同时也是解释福尔唐一家为什么并不信任主角，但会赞助主角的原因）
>
> indiscretion .n. 轻率；言行失检 ；（尤指性关系上的）不检点
>
>> Mother hated him, of course. Even on her deathbed, she refused to acknowledge him. And ... to be honest, she was not alone in her feelings.
>>
>
> （这里表明Artoirel自己其实也不怎么认奥尔什方，根据后文，Artoirel甚至对奥尔什方可能是有一点厌恶的）
>
>> An <b class="text-red-500">onerous</b> task, <b class="text-red-500">fraught with</b> danger.
>>
>
> onerous .adj. 繁重的
>
> fraught with 充满：表示某事物充满了困难、危险或不确定性。
>
>> That I doubted your strength <b class="text-red-500">bespeaks</b> mine own weakness.
>>
>
> bespeak .v. 表明，显示
>
> 这句话的意思是，我对你力量的怀疑显示了我的弱小

<div class="border-4 p-6">
The House Durendaire knights have matters at Gorgagne Mills well in hand, and Lord Artoirel sees no reason to remain. Return with him to Falcon's Nest and brief Ser Redwald on your discoveries.

Considering all that you and Lord Artoirel have done on behalf of Falcon's Nest, Ser Redwald cannot in good conscience impose upon the two of you any longer. He gives you his blessing to return to Ishgard, and affirms his intent to deliver a glowing report to the Holy See. It would seem your services are no longer required, but before taking your leave, you might ask Lord Artoirel if he requires anything else.

Speaking with unaccustomed candor, Lord Artoirel admits that he long harbored doubts regarding your competence and motives, in part perhaps because Lord Haurchefant─his bastard half-brother─holds you in such high esteem. When forced to decide who would pursue the heretics, he turned to you not out of an eagerness to bring Ishgard's enemies to justice, but out of a dark desire to see you fail. But after witnessing your willingness to risk all for the cause, as well as the aftermath of your handiwork, he sees that you are every bit the hero Lord Haurchefant claimed, and swears never to doubt you again.
</div>

>> The House Durendaire Knights have matters at Gorgagne Mills <b class="text-red-500">well in hand</b>
>>
>
> well in hand 掌握地很好，十拿九稳
>
>> Return with him to Falcon's Nest and <b class="text-red-500">brief</b> Ser Redwald on your discoveries.
>>
>
> （注意这里的brief的用法）
>
>> Ser Redwald cannot <b class="text-red-500">in good conscience</b> impose upon the two of you any longer.
>>
>
> conscience .n. 良知，良心；内疚，愧疚
>
> in good conscience 问心无愧地：在道义上可以接受的，没有负罪感的。
>
>> He gives you his blessing to return to Ishgard, and <b class="text-red-500">affirms</b> his intent to deliver a glowing report to the Holy See.
>>
>
> affirm .v. 断言，证实； 宣称拥护，支持；认可（判决，协议），批准；不宣誓而提供正式证词；给予（某人）情感支持
>
>> Speaking with unaccustomed <b class="text-red-500">candor</b>, Lord Artoirel admits that he long <b class="text-red-500">harbored</b> doubts regarding your compeence and motives,
>>
>
> candor .n. 坦率（美式英语是candour）
>
> harbor .v. 庇护；窝藏；
>
>> But after witnessing your willingness to risk all for the cause, as well as the <b class="text-red-500">aftermath</b> of your handiwork, he sees that you are every bit the hero Lord Haurchefant claimed
>>
>
> aftermath .n.（战争、风暴、事故的）后果，余波； **（不快事件）结束后的一个时期；（不快事件的）后果**
