---
title: 6. To Siege Or Not to Siege
---

## To Siege Or Not to Siege

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Alphinaud is distracted by a call on his linkpearl.

Alphinaud

-- Tataru? ...Yes, General Raubahn is now in safe hands. What? ...Another assault? Very well. We shall return at once. Pray notify the count of our coming.

-- It would seem we face another crisis. The Dravanians are preparing to resume their siege of the Holy See. ...Though I am loath to abandon the sultana to her fate, we lack the necessary evidence to act upon Dewlala's claims. That being the case, I propose we leave Marshal Tarupin and the others to investigate, and return with all haste to Ishgard.

Dewlala

-- I have taken charge of matters here. Consider yourself free to tend to other, more pressing tasks.

Pipin

--  Pray do not tarry for my father's sake. I will see that he is well looked after. And should we uncover any information on Her Grace's whereabouts, I promise you will be the first to know.

Haurchefant

-- I believe Mistress Tataru wished a word with you. Pray do not take long, however, as we have much to discuss.

Emmanellain

-- There you are, old girl! Tell me, do you want the good news first or the bad news? Actually, don't bother. There isn't any good news.
</div>

>> To Siege Or Not to Siege
>>
>
> siege  .v. 围攻，包围 .n. （军队或警察对某地的）围困，包围；不断的攻击
>
> besiege   .v. 包围，围困；打扰，纠缠
>
>> Pray do not tarry for my father's sake.
>>
>
> tarry  .v. 等候；逗留；耽搁

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Tataru

-- Ah, there you are! Sorry for cutting your reunion with General Raubahn short. I wouldn't have bothered you, but the city's awash with rumors of another Dravanian attack, and Lord Haurchefant was desperate to get hold of you. Speaking of whom, he and the others are waiting for you inside, so you'd better head in! We can talk later! Everyone's waiting for you inside!

Alphinaud

-- Let us hear what the count has to say.

Haurchefant

-- My friend! I thank you for answering our call with such alacrity! As I am sure you are now aware, the Dravanians are once more gathering for war.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- Mistress Kali, Master Leveilleur--I must apologize for this abrupt summons, but we thought it best to have Mistress Tataru contact you by the most direct means available.

Artoirel

-- When the Observatorium's bells toll, 'tis a warning that cannot be ignored. The Holy See has ordered that we make ready for battle.

Emmanellain

-- In case you haven't heard, a band of trappers returning from the west claim they saw a cloud of dragons big enough to dim the midday sky!

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- Nidhogg's minions gather once more for war... But I would not have you take up arms in another of our conflicts. When first you came to Ishgard, I offered you my protection. If I cannot ensure your safety here, I cannot well accept your aid, much less ask for it.

-- Scions of the Seventh Dawn, you are faced with a choice: to remain in a besieged Ishgard, or seek sanctuary elsewhere. I would not presume to influence your decision, but I must ask that you make it swiftly, lest our enemies force your hand.

Haurchefant

-- The coming of the Horde spells ruin for Ishgard...but her knights shall fight to the last to shield her citizens from harm!

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- I confess, I know not where else you might seek sanctuary, but few places are like to be more perilous than a city under siege.

Artoirel

-- The Observatorium bells have tolled. Either flee this place or make ready for war.

Emmanellain

-- How many dragons would it take to darken the midday sky, do you think? A thousand? More? Too many, at any rate...

Alphinaud

-- Though we flee to the ends of the world, 'twould seem that no place in this troubled age is free of strife. Once more the Horde descends upon Ishgard, and once more her weary defenders must take up spear and bow. The count would have us seek shelter from this storm, but I, for one, grow tired of running. If we are to shine the light of dawn, we must do so in the sight of our fellow man, not hunkered in a hole. What say you, Luna?

-- Then fight we shall! Let it never be said that we abandoned our allies in their hour of need!
</div>

>> I wouldn't have bothered you, but the city's <b class="text-red-500">awash with</b> rumors of another Dravanian attack, and Lord Haurchefant was desperate to <b class="text-red-500">get hold of</b> you.
>>
>
> awash with 充满，洋溢着：表示某个地方或事物充满了大量的某种东西，通常用于描述大量的物品、情感或特点。
>
> get hold of  抓住，掌握：成功找到某物或与某人取得联系；控制住某人或某事。
>
>> a band of trappers returning from the west claim they saw a cloud of dragons big enough to dim the midday sky!
>>
>
> trapper 设置陷阱捕猎者，这里简单理解为猎人即可
>
> dim 使灰暗（注意别与数学上经常用的dim混淆，那是dimention的简称）
>
> midday 中午的
>
>> I confess, I know not where else you might seek sanctuary, but few places are like to be more perilous than a city under siege.
>>
>
> perilous .adj. 危险的，艰险的；濒临灾难（或毁灭）的

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Tataru sends grave tidings from the Holy See. It would seem the Horde gathers once more to renew its assault upon the city. Return to Ishgard, and rendezvous with the receptionist outside Fortemps Manor.

After welcoming you back to Ishgard, Tataru bids you enter Fortemps Manor, where Lord Haurchefant and Count Edmont wait to discuss the looming threat.

Your Ishgardian allies confirm that a Dravanian invasion is indeed imminent. Concerned for your safety, the count urges you to consider seeking sanctuary elsewhere. Speak with Alphinaud, and decide what the Scions will do.

After discussing the matter with Alphinaud, you resolve to do all in your power to aid your friends and allies. Faced with the assembled might of the Horde, however, how can the Holy See's exhausted defenders hope to prevail...?
</div>

>> Your Ishgardian allies confirm that a Dravanian invasion is indeed <b class="text-red-500">imminent</b>.
>>
>
> imminent .adj. 即将发生的，临近的；

## Alphinaud's way

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Alphinaud is deliberating how best to proceed.

Alphinaud

-- The choice we make this day may have grave implications for our order. It is only right that Tataru should have a say. Come, let us all meet outside and discuss the path that lies before us.

Tataru

-- What will become of this place...and us?

Alphinaud

-- Ishgard cannot well endure another assault. Even should her knights succeed in turning back the Horde, the casualties will be catastrophic.

Tataru

-- But what other choice do we have? It's not like we can talk it over with them. Dragons and men aren't exactly on speaking terms.

Alphinaud

-- ...With certain notable exceptions.

Tataru

-- You don't mean...Iceheart!?

Alphinaud

-- When last you spoke with her, she lamented her crimes, did she not? Then there remains a sliver of hope. If we can persuade Iceheart to act as our intermediary, we may yet be able to convince Nidhogg to abandon his bloody course.

Estinien

-- If there is to be a meeting, I would accompany you.

Alphinaud

-- Estinien.

Estinien

-- Even with your intermediary, Nidhogg's bloodrage may render him deaf to reason. However, the mere attempt may afford our forces precious time to prepare. Of course...you might also consider a more direct approach to ending this conflict. With the power of the Eye at my disposal, and the vaunted strength of the Warrior of Light, we could conceivably slay the beast outright...

Alphinaud

-- If we are to risk a face-to-face meeting with the dread wyrm, I for one would feel safer in the company of the Azure Dragoon. However, I should only turn to your lance if my words failed to find their mark. Is that clear?

Estinien

-- Perfectly. I shall assume that Iceheart enjoys similar diplomatic protection until instructed otherwise. A word of advice: think carefully before divulging the particulars of this plan to Ser Aymeric. 'Twould not do to have the lord commander accused of consorting with heretics.

Alphinaud

-- Indeed. I thank you for your counsel, Estinien. We shall be honored to have you with us.

Estinien

-- I am glad to be of service.

Alphinaud

-- We have chosen a difficult road--yet even should we succeed in winning Iceheart to our cause, our plans for parley will swiftly come to naught should the Holy See decide to strike first against the Horde. We must petition the lord commander's aid ere we set forth. I only hope that Ser Aymeric will be willing to muzzle Ishgard's forces on the strength of our vague assurances.

-- Tataru--I would ask that you remain at Fortemps Manor and inform the count of our decision. Tell him that the Scions of the Seventh Dawn mean to do all in their power to ensure that Ishgard and her people survive.

Tataru

-- Yes, sir! Don't worry about the count--I'll tell him the Scions aren't going anywhere!
</div>

>> The choice we make this day may have <b class="text-red-500">grave</b> implications for our order.
>>
>
> grave  .v.<文>铭记，铭刻；<古>刻（铭文，图像）；.n. 坟墓，墓穴；死亡，终结； .adj. 严峻的，严重的；严肃的，庄重的；认真的，深切的；
>
> implication .n. 可能的影响（或作用、结果）；含意，暗指；牵连，涉及
>
>> It's not like we can <b class="text-red-500">talk it over</b> with them
>>
>
> talk over 说服 ；讨论；详尽地商议；
>
>> Dragons and men aren't exactly on <b class="text-red-500">speaking terms</b>.
>>
>
> speaking terms 交谈关系：指两个人之间的关系是否足够友好，可以进行正常的交流和谈话。
>
> * After their argument, they were barely on speaking terms. 他们争吵之后，几乎无法正常交谈。
>
>> When last you spoke with her, she <b class="text-red-500">lamented</b> her crimes, did she not?
>>
>
> lament  .v. 对……感到悲痛，对……表示失望；抱怨
>
>> Then there remains <b class="text-red-500">a sliver of</b> hope.
>>
>
> a sliver of  少量，一点点
>
>> Even with your intermediary, Nidhogg's <b class="text-red-500">bloodrage</b> may render him <b class="text-red-500">deaf to</b> reason.
>>
>
> bloodrage 嗜血狂怒
>
> deaf to 对......充耳不闻：指对某事物或某人的言论完全不加理睬，不愿意倾听。
>
>> With the power of the Eye at my disposal, and the <b class="text-red-500">vaunted</b> strength of the Warrior of Light,
>>
>
> vaunt  .v. 自夸；吹嘘；vaunted  .adj. 自夸的；大肆吹嘘的
>
>> I should only turn to your lance if my words failed to <b class="text-red-500">find their mark</b>.
>>
>
> find their mark 达到预期效果（注意这是一个习语，本身源自于射箭运动，find mark就是箭找到靶子，引申为达成预期目标，但是要注意这里的their，代指的是前面的my words，是我的话语达成预期目标）
>
>> I only hope that Ser Aymeric will be willing to <b class="text-red-500">muzzle</b> Ishgard's forces on the strength of our vague assurances.
>>
>
> muzzle .v. 使……缄默；给……戴口套；封锁……的言论

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Aymeric

-- I want the defenses of the outer ward rechecked. See to it that the ballistas are in good repair and supplied with enough ammunition for a prolonged siege.

Timorous Temple Knight

-- At once, my lord!

Aymeric

-- Ah, 'twould seem I have visitors--and unlike those massing beyond our walls, these ones are welcome.

Alphinaud

-- Pray forgive us for interrupting you in the midst of your preparations, Ser Aymeric, but our suit concerns the impending assault. To speak plain, we believe there is a chance the invasion might be halted before it even begins. I can divulge little more at this time, but I must nevertheless request that you advise the Holy See to refrain from launching any preemptive sorties whilst we seek to put our plans in motion.

Aymeric

-- I will gladly lend my support to any endeavor that could spare the blood of my countrymen--but I would know more of the cause you would have me champion. Will you not share aught of this mysterious undertaking?

Estinien

-- Know that I have offered my lance to aid in this endeavor. I cannot claim that its success is assured, but our actions should serve to delay Nidhogg's advance at the very least. Which is more than can be said for the ill-conceived counterattack advocated by the See's more vocal crusaders. They offer glorious death, but little hope of victory.

Aymeric

-- Aye...their proposal does not inspire confidence. Our resources should rightly be spent shoring up the city's defenses.

-- Hmmm. The Azure Dragoon and the Warrior of Light, sallying forth together to face the dread wyrm, Nidhogg... I must admit, the mere thought of it does much to dispel my misgivings. Go, then─carry out your plan. I shall do what I can for you within the Holy See.
</div>

>> See to it that the <b class="text-red-500">ballistas</b> are in good repair and supplied with enough <b class="text-red-500">ammunition</b> for a prolonged siege.
>>
>
> ballistas .n. <古>投石器
>
> ammunition  .n. 弹药，军火；
>
>> Pray forgive us for interrupting you in the midst of your preparations, Ser Aymeric, but our <b class="text-red-500">suit</b> concerns the impending assault.
>>
>
> suit 在文学作品中可以表示“请求”，特别是对当权者的请求。
>
>> I can <b class="text-red-500">divulge</b> little more at this time, but I must nevertheless request that you advise the Holy See to <b class="text-red-500">refrain</b> from launching any <b class="text-red-500">preemptive</b> <b class="text-red-500">sorties</b> <b class="text-red-500">whilst</b> we seek to <b class="text-red-500">put our plans in motion</b>.
>>
>
> divulge  .v. 泄露；暴露
>
> refrain  .v. 克制，避免
>
> preemptive  .adj. 优先购买的；先发制人的；有先买权的
>
> sortie .n. 出击，突围；（短暂）出门，外出；尝试参与；.v. 突围，反守为攻 （注意没有sorty这个词）
>
> whilst  现代英语中跟while类似，但比较少见。古英语中还可以表示”直到...才“的意思。
>
> in motion 在开动中，在运转中，这里是put plan in motion
>
>> I will gladly lend my support to any endeavor that could spare the blood of my countrymen--but I would know more of the cause you would have me champion.
>>
>
> spare 这里作“免去”的意思
>
>> I cannot claim that its success is assured, but our actions should serve to delay Nidhogg's advance<b class="text-red-500"> at the very least</b>.
>>
>
> at the very least  至少；起码；一点
>
>> Which is more than can be said for the <b class="text-red-500">ill-conceived</b> <b class="text-red-500">counterattack</b> <b class="text-red-500">advocated</b> by the See's more <b class="text-red-500">vocal</b> <b class="text-red-500">crusaders</b>. ​#ConfusingEnglish#​
>>
>
> ill-conceived  .adj. 构想拙劣的；计划不周的
>
> counterattack  .n. 反击；反攻
>
> advocate .v. 拥护，提倡
>
> vocal 本意是大声的，这里可以理解为鲁莽的，只会吵闹的
>
> crusader    .n. 十字军战士
>
> 这里的“is more than can be said”，意思是“难以言喻”的意思，就是他们的这种鲁莽都没法形容。
>
>> They offer <b class="text-red-500">glorious</b> death, but little hope of victory.
>>
>
> glorious .adj. 光荣的，值得称道的；辉煌的，绚丽的；
>
>> Our resources should rightly be spent <b class="text-red-500">shoring up</b> the city's defenses.
>>
>
> shore up 加固，支持：通过提供支持或帮助来使某物更加稳定或安全。
>
>> The Azure Dragoon and the Warrior of Light, <b class="text-red-500">sallying forth</b> together to face the dread wyrm, Nidhogg... I must admit, the mere thought of it does much to dispel my <b class="text-red-500">misgivings</b>.
>>
>
> sally forth  出发；勇敢地前进：勇敢地离开安全区域，开始新的冒险或挑战。
>
> misgiving .n. 疑虑，担忧，不安

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Estinien

-- I will say this for your plan: it has made keeping secrets from the Holy See seem almost entertaining.

Alphinaud

-- Having secured Ser Aymeric's support, we may proceed without fear of a preemptive Ishgardian attack--which is not to say we can afford to dither. History tells us that the Dravanians will attack as soon as their Horde reaches a critical size. Before that happens, we must needs track down and win over the Lady Iceheart...and then locate and parley with Nidhogg. In short, time is against us. If you are ready, Estinien, let us be about our task.
</div>

>> Having <b class="text-red-500">secured</b> Ser Aymeric's support, we may proceed without fear of a <b class="text-red-500">preemptive</b> Ishgardian attack--which is not to say we can afford to <b class="text-red-500">dither</b>.
>>
>
> secure 可以表示获得，尤其是指经过努力后获得
>
> dither .n. 高频振动；犹豫不决
>
>> Before that happens, we must needs <b class="text-red-500">track down</b> and <b class="text-red-500">win over</b> the Lady Iceheart
>>
>
> track down 追踪，查找：努力寻找或追踪某人或某物。
>
> win over 说服，胜诉；争取到……

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Archibishop Thordan VII

-- Such commotion...

Zephirin

-- Yes, Your Eminence. The bells of the Observatorium warn of our enemy's approach...

Archibishop Thordan VII

-- So...the dragons are coming.

-- Let them come--in their hundreds and their thousands. With the divine blade in our hands, we shall rend their flesh and drown the heretics in their masters' blood. Even Nidhogg and his foul brood shall be powerless to resist us. And when we have rid the world of their pestilence, we shall turn our attention to our Ascian allies--see that they are suitably rewarded for their invaluable assistance.

Zephirin

-- If I may, Your Eminence. The Paragons wield powers strange and unknowable. Can we be certain that they will not see through our deception?

Archibishop Thordan VII

-- We can be certain of naught save the righteousness of our cause. If you would be a true leader of men, you must possess conviction as well as caution. We seek to excise the root of an evil that has blighted us for a thousand years. The risk is worth the reward.

Zephirin

-- And what of Estinien and this Warrior of Light? They have plans of their own...

Archibishop Thordan VII

-- Leave them to their purpose. We must each play the role we have been given...you and your chosen brothers most of all.

Zephirin

-- For the glory of King Thordan...
</div>

>> With the divine blade in our hands, we shall <b class="text-red-500">rend</b> their flesh and drown the heretics in their masters' blood.
>>
>
> rend  .v. 撕碎；分裂；强夺
>
>> Even Nidhogg and his <b class="text-red-500">foul</b> brood shall be powerless to resist us.
>>
>
> foul .adj. 难闻的，令人恶心的；(脾气）暴躁的，（心情）烦躁的；不正当的，不道德的；（语言）下流的，无礼的；
>
>> And when we have rid the world of their <b class="text-red-500">pestilence</b>, we shall turn our attention to our Ascian allies--see that they are suitably rewarded for their invaluable assistance.
>>
>
> pestilence  .n. 瘟疫（尤指鼠疫）；有害的事物
>
>> We can be certain of naught save the <b class="text-red-500">righteousness</b> of our cause.
>>
>
> righteousness  .n. 正义
>
>> We seek to <b class="text-red-500">excise</b> the root of an evil that has <b class="text-red-500">blighted</b> us for a thousand years.
>>
>
> excise  .v. 切除；删除；收税，征税
>
> blight 使染上枯萎病；毁坏  blighted 枯萎的；摧残的

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Conscious that Tataru should have a say in how to proceed, Alphinaud proposes that the three of you hold a council. Join your fellow Scions at the manor entrance, and signal to Alphinaud that you are ready to begin.

As you discuss the possibility of enlisting Iceheart to mediate with the dragons, you are approached by Estinien, Ishgard's famed Azure Dragoon. He insists on accompanying you to the proposed parley with Nidhogg, and Alphinaud warily consents, on the condition that he stay his lance until words have proven ineffective. Before you can begin your mission, however, you must first convince Ser Aymeric to forestall any military action that might jeopardize your negotiations. Make your way to the Congregation of Our Knights Most Heavenly, and speak with the sentry on duty to be admitted to the Seat of the Lord Commander.

Though troubled by your refusal to share the details of your plan, Ser Aymeric agrees to use his influence to keep the See's more vociferous crusaders in check. Ask Alphinaud what he intends to do next.

Though Ser Aymeric has granted you a measure of time to enact your plan, the Horde will invade the moment its forces are assembled. Conscious of this, Alphinaud immediately sets his sights on the next objective: locating Lady Iceheart.
</div>

>> <b class="text-red-500">Conscious</b> that Tataru should have a say in how to proceed, Alphinaud proposes that the three of you hold a <b class="text-red-500">council</b>.
>>
>
> conscious .adj. 意识到的；神志清醒的，有知觉的；关注的；刻意的，慎重的
>
> council .n. 会议
>
>> As you discuss the possibility of enlisting Iceheart to <b class="text-red-500">mediate</b> with the dragons, you are approached by Estinien, Ishgard's famed Azure Dragoon.
>>
>
> mediate 调停，斡旋；影响……的发生，使……可能发生；促成（协议），找到……的解决办法；引起，形成；传递，传达；
>
>> Alphinaud <b class="text-red-500">warily</b> consents, on the condition that he stay his lance until words have proven ineffective.
>>
>
> warily  .adv. 警惕地；谨慎地；留心地
>
>> Though troubled by your <b class="text-red-500">refusal</b> to share the details of your plan, Ser Aymeric agrees to use his influence to <b class="text-red-500">keep</b> the See's more <b class="text-red-500">vociferous</b> crusaders <b class="text-red-500">in check</b>.
>>
>
> refusal  .n. 拒绝，回绝；拒绝接受，拒绝给予；优先取舍权，优先购买权
>
> vociferous  .adj. 大声叫的，喊叫的，喧嚷的；激昂的
>
> keep in check 保持控制：对某人或某事进行限制或控制，以防止其变得过于强大或过于自由。
>
>> Though Ser Aymeric has granted you <b class="text-red-500">a measure of</b> time to enact your plan, the Horde will invade the moment its forces are assembled.
>>
>
> a measure of 定程度上：表示某事物在一定程度上存在或发生。
>
>> Alphinaud immediately <b class="text-red-500">sets his sights on</b> the next objective: locating Lady Iceheart.
>>
>
> sets sight on 瞄准，锁定目标：表示将注意力、目标或期望集中在某个特定的事物或目标上。

## In Search of Iceheart

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Alphinaud would see to one final matter before setting forth.

Alphinaud

-- Before we set forth, we must needs inform Tataru of our plans.

Estinien

-- Then I shall await you at Saint Reinette's Forum. Tell your friend we may be some time--the road you have chosen is neither short nor easy.

-- Have you spoken with your friend? ...Well, see that she is prepared for a long wait. She will burn many a candle at her window ere we set foot in Ishgard again.

Alphinaud

-- Of that I need no reminding. Come, Luna. Let us head back to Fortemps Manor.

-- Our course is set, Tataru. It may be some time before Luna and I return to Ishgard.

Tatru

-- Well, just you be careful, all right? Oh, and don't worry about me--I'll be busy listening out for news of our lost friends!

Alphinaud

-- If anyone can find them, it is you, Tataru. Farewell, for now...

Tatru

-- Oh! Oh! Before you go! You must put this on, Alphinaud! I made it specially!

Alphinaud

-- By the Twelve... It fits perfectly. And the quality is...actually rather good.

Tatru

-- I'm glad you like it! I've been practicing my needlework while I listen to rumors and the like. A good receptionist is always learning new skills!

Alphinaud

-- My thanks, Tataru. Whatever else awaits me upon the road, I shall not fear the cold.

Tatru

-- 'Twas the least I could do. Now, I must be getting back to the tavern, or I'll never catch up with all the gossip! Best of luck on your journey!

Alphinaud

-- This new attire will serve me well in the bitter cold of Coerthas. I shall have to thank Tataru properly upon our return.
</div>

>> She will <b class="text-red-500">burn many a candle at her window </b>ere we set foot in Ishgard again.
>>
>
> burn many a candle at windown 疑似是一种习语，表示苦苦地等待很长时间，这个习语的典故已经不可考，但是在现代英语还在使用。但是网上很少收集到这个信息
>
>> This new <b class="text-red-500">attire</b> will serve me well in the bitter cold of Coerthas.
>>
>
> attire  .n. <正式>服装，衣服

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Estinien

-- You have said your farewells, then?

Alphinaud

-- Aye, we are ready to depart. I suggest we begin our search for Lady Iceheart without delay.

Estinien

-- Very well, but she will prove an elusive quarry. Where do you intend to start looking?

Alphinaud

-- In the absence of any fresh intelligence on Ysayle's movements, I propose we pick up the trail where she was encountered last--the Coerthas western highlands. Let us speak with...Ser Redwald, was it? As the commander of Falcon's Nest, it is like that he will know if any heretic activity has been reported in the area.

Redwald

-- Well, well! Mistress Kali! What business brings you back to Falcon's Nest? ...Judging by the company you keep, it can be no trifling matter. The Azure Dragoon I know, of course, but I do not believe I have met this young gentleman...?

Alphinaud

-- Alphinaud Leveilleur, at your service. And you are not mistaken as to the gravity of our mission, Ser Redwald. As I am sure you are aware, the Observatorium has warned that the Dravanians gather for another assault. We believe there may yet be a way to avert the coming conflict--but only if we can find the elusive Lady Iceheart. Thus have we come to Falcon's Nest in the hope of acquiring the latest intelligence on the heretics' movements.

Redwald

-- I see. Then you would be best served by speaking directly to my men. A patrol is due to return from its sweep of the surrounding lands at any moment. You may also wish to question the knights assigned to pick over the remains of the heretic refuge at Gorgagne Mills. 'Tis possible they have unearthed information that could be of use to you. Mistress Kali knows well the place I speak of, for it was she who first discovered it.

Estinien

-- Let us divide our forces, then. I will stay and await the return of the patrol while the two of you visit this refuge. When I have completed my inquiries, I will join you there.

Alphinaud

-- A wise use of our time. Come, Luna. I am eager to learn what Ser Redwald's men have found in the heretics' lair.

Estinien

-- As agreed, I will stay and await the return of the patrol while the two of you visit the heretics' refuge. When I have completed my inquiries, I will join you there.
</div>

>> she will prove an <b class="text-red-500">elusive</b> quarry
>>
>
> elusive quarry 难以捕捉的猎物：指难以追踪和捕捉的动物，也可用于比喻难以达成的目标或计划。
>
> * The criminal proved to be an elusive quarry for the police. 这个罪犯对于警方来说是一个难以捕捉的猎物。
>
> elusive .adj. 难以理解的，难以记住的；难以发现的，难以捕获的
>
> quarry .n. 猎物；采石场
>
>> Judging by the company you keep, it can be no trifling matter
>>
>
> trifling  .adj. 微不足道的；轻浮的
>
>> We believe there may yet be a way to avert the coming conflict
>>
>
> avert  .v.防止，避免；转移
>
>> A patrol is due to return from its sweep of the surrounding lands at any moment.
>>
>
> due to return 很快会回来
>
>> You may also wish to question the knights assigned to <b class="text-red-500">pick over</b> the remains of the heretic refuge at Gorgagne Mills.
>>
>
> pick over 挑选，仔细检查：仔细挑选或检查某物，以确保质量或适用性。
>
>> 'Tis possible they have unearthed information that could be of use to you.
>>
>
> unearth  .v. 发掘，使出土；发现，揭露；从洞中赶出（动物，尤指狐狸）

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Alphinaud

-- Just a simple farmhouse... It makes one wonder what other innocent facades the heretics have chosen to hide behind.

Expedition Leader

-- Mistress Kali ...Our findings, you say? Well, there is something of a tale there... No sooner had we chanced upon a promising-looking sheaf of letters than we were ambushed from the shadows by great white beasts. 'Twould seem the heretics foresaw our coming, and left behind their pets to discourage further investigation. Several of our number were badly wounded...

Alphinaud

-- ...And you cannot carry out your duties until the creatures are slain. We have not the time to wait for reinforcements─let us deal with these “pets” ourselves, Luna.

Expedition Leader

-- We were ill prepared for what awaited us at the farmhouse... Forgive me, but until the creatures have been put down, we cannot safely continue our investigation.

Alphinaud

-- Oh... Oh dear... Th-The creature took me by surprise... F-Forgive me... Until my hands stop shaking, I fear I shall prove more a hindrance than a h-help. Pray go on ahead, and when you are certain that the rest of these...things have been slain, notify the expedition leader that it is safe to return.

-- I heard a frightful growling from below. You encountered more of the beasts, I take it?

Estinien

-- My inquiries availed me naught. The patrol leader had little to say beyond which of his extremities the frost had bitten the hardest...

Expedition Leader

-- The beasts are slain, then? My thanks, Mistress Kali... We may return to our duty without fear of a mauling.
</div>

>> It makes one wonder what other innocent <b class="text-red-500">facades</b> the heretics have chosen to hide behind.
>>
>
> facade  .n. （建筑物的）正面，立面；假象，伪装
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">Expedition</b> Leader
>>
>
> expedition  .n. 远征，考察；探险队，考察队；动作敏捷，迅速
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">No sooner</b> had we chanced upon a <b class="text-red-500">promising-looking</b> <b class="text-red-500">sheaf</b> of letters <b class="text-red-500">than</b> we were <b class="text-red-500">ambushed</b> from the shadows by great white beasts.
>>
>
> chanced upon 偶然遇见：意外地遇到某人或某物。
>
> promising-looking  .adj. 看起来有前途的，有希望的：外表或表现给人带来积极、有希望的印象。
>
> * He is a promising-looking young man. 他是一个看起来很有前途的年轻人。
>
> sheaf  .n. 捆；束；扎
>
> no sooner than 刚一......就：表示某个动作或事件紧接着另一个动作或事件发生，通常用于强调两个动作或事件之间的时间间隔非常短。
>
> ambush .v.  埋伏
>
>> Until my hands stop shaking, I fear I shall prove more a <b class="text-red-500">hindrance</b> than a help.
>>
>
> hindrance  .n. 造成妨碍的人（或事物）；阻碍，妨碍
>
>> I heard a frightful <b class="text-red-500">growling</b> from below.
>>
>
> growl  .v. 咆哮
>
>> The patrol leader had little to say beyond which of his <b class="text-red-500">extremities</b> the frost had bitten the hardest...
>>
>
> extremity .n. 手脚；四肢
>
>> We may return to our duty without fear of a <b class="text-red-500">mauling</b>.
>>
>
> maul   .v. 袭击，撕咬；轻易击败（尤用于体育报告中）；猛烈抨击；粗手粗脚地摆弄，粗暴地对待；

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Though eager to depart, Alphinaud thinks it prudent to relay the details of the impending journey to Tataru. Return to Fortemps Manor, and speak with the waiting receptionist.

Having listened to the particulars of your mission, Tataru wishes you well, and promises to continue her search for the missing Scions in your absence. By way of a parting gift, she then presents Alphinaud with clothing more suited to the harsh conditions of the Coerthan wilderness. Your farewells now said, seek out Estinien at Saint Reinette's Forum, and inform him that you are ready to leave.

Alphinaud proposes that you begin the search for Lady Iceheart in the last place you encountered her--the Coerthas western highlands. Travel to Falcon's Nest, and speak with Ser Redwald for the latest reports on heretical activity in the area.

In response to Alphinaud's request for information, Ser Redwald suggests that you consult his knights─both a group soon to return from patrol, and an expedition sent to pick over the remnants of the heretic hideaway you discovered at Gorgagne Mills. While Estinien awaits the return of the patrol, head to the Gorgagne Holding with Alphinaud and question the leader of the knights assigned to search the farmhouse.

The expedition leader claims to have discovered a promising sheaf of letters in the farmhouse. Alas, these were not the only things the heretics left behind... Apparently, their “pets” fell upon the knights unexpectedly, wounding several, and preventing further investigation. Slay the beasts so that whatever remains of the heretics' missives can be retrieved.

You have slain the tamed polar bears lurking within the farmhouse. Inform the expedition leader that it is safe for his men to continue their investigation.

The expedition leader is relieved to hear that he and his men may return to their duties without fear of further maulings. All that remains is to claim the letters left behind by the heretics...
</div>

>> By way of a parting gift, she then presents Alphinaud with clothing more suited to the harsh conditions of the Coerthan wilderness.
>>
>
> parting gift 临别礼物：在告别时赠送给他人的礼物，用以表达感激和祝福。
>
>> You have slain the <b class="text-red-500">tamed</b> polar bears lurking within the farmhouse.
>>
>
> tame  .v. 驯服

## From One Heretic to Another

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- The expdition leader has a promising lead to aid you in your search for Lady Iceheat.

Expedition Leader

-- You wish to track down Lady Iceheart, is this not so? The records we discovered ere those beasts mauled my comrades appeared to be some manner of correspondence. We had not the luxury of perusing their contents more closely--intent as we were on surviving an onslaught of fang and claw--but I'd wager those epistles contain more than friendly salutations betwixt lonely heretics.

Estinien

-- My interrogation of the patrol proved fruitless. Either we divine some clue from these letters, or we wander the snowfields and pray that the gods lead us right to Iceheart's door. 'Tis hardly a choice at all...
</div>

>> The records we discovered ere those beasts mauled my comrades appeared to be some manner of correspondence.
>>
>
> correspondence  .n.  信件，信函；通信；相似，关联
>
>> We had not the luxury of perusing their contents more closely--intent as we were on surviving an onslaught of fang and claw--but I'd wager those epistles contain more than friendly salutations betwixt lonely heretics.
>>
>
> peruse  .v. 详细考察；精读
>
> onslaught  .n. 攻击，猛攻；（常指难以应付的）大批，大量；猛烈抨击
>
> fang and claw 爪牙
>
> wager .v. 打赌
>
> epistle  .n. 书信
>
> salutation  .n. <正式>招呼，致意；（信函、演讲开头的）称呼语
>
> betwixt  相当于between
>
>> My interrogation of the patrol proved fruitless.
>>
>
> interrogation  .n. 审问，盘问；查询；疑问句
>
>> Either we divine some clue from these letters, or we wander the snowfields and pray that the gods lead us right to Iceheart's door.
>>
>
> divine 作为动词有"凭直觉猜测”的意思。

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Alphinaud

-- I have found some few of these letters. Let us gather a respectable stack, and see what secrets the expedition captain can wring from the collected correspondence.

Expedition Leader

-- Ah, the letters were in a neat pile just here...but 'twould seem the skirmish with the beasts has scattered them rather thoroughly.

Estinien

-- Where are these damnable pages...? I'd rather battle two score aevis than continue this confounded search!

-- Splendid. Added to the contributions from Master Leveilleur and Ser Estinien, we now have more than a dozen letters.

-- What have we here, then... Hmmm. Every one of these pages is a record of the dealings betwixt the Gorgagne Mills heretics and their fellows in the Akh Afah Amphitheatre. There are requests for foodstuffs, clothing, and all manner of provisions. Iceheart's followers must yet inhabit the ruins we had thought abandoned...

Estinien

-- “Akh Afah” is taken from the dragons' tongue--it means, roughly, “Eternal Circle.” 'Tis little wonder the heretics thought to return to the place.
</div>

>> Let us gather a respectable stack, and see what secrets the expedition captain can wring from the collected correspondence.
>>
>
> respectable  .adj. 有一定价值的，相当重要的；值得尊敬的，体面的；相当好的，不错的；
>
> wring  .v. 拧；绞；紧握；使痛苦；折磨；（这里指的就是从这些信件中推敲意思）
>
>> the letters were in a neat pile just here...but 'twould seem the skirmish with the beasts has scattered them rather thoroughly.
>>
>
> pile  .n. 一堆，一叠；一大堆，大量；大笔钱财；
>
> in a neat pile 堆得整整齐齐（注意前面的were，也就是之前堆得整整齐齐）
>
>> I'd rather battle<b class="text-red-500"> two score aevis</b> than continue this confounded search!
>>
>
> two score aevis  这里的score在古英语中是“一打”的意思，也就是二十个，aevis在古拉丁语中是鸟avis的复数形式

<div class="border-4 p-6">
The expedition leader recalls a stack of correspondence they had discovered within the farmhouse that may contain some clue as to Lady Iceheart's current whereabouts. Search Gorgagne Mills, and collect any heretic letters you find.

You have gathered a respectable stack of heretic epistles. Return to the expedition leader, and add your contribution to the pile.

After handing your share of the heretic letters to the waiting knight, the Ishgardian quickly peruses the collected correspondence. The messages prove to be a meticulously kept record of the dealings between the heretics camped at Gorgagne Mills, and their fellows in the Akh Afah Amphitheatre. Judging by the numerous requests for provisions, it would seem the amphitheatre is still being used as a base by Iceheart's minions...
</div>

>> The messages prove to be a <b class="text-red-500">meticulously</b> kept record of the dealings between the heretics camped at Gorgagne Mills, and their fellows in the Akh Afah <b class="text-red-500">Amphitheatre</b>.
>>
>
> meticulously  .adv. 细致地；一丝不苟地；拘泥地
>
> amphitheater  .n. 竞技场；[建] 圆形露天剧场；古罗马剧场

‍
