---
title: 1. Remembering Ishgard
---

# Remembering Ishgard

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- This Fury-fearing Elezen has a story to tell.

Fury-fearing Elezen

-- Hmmm... I take it by your garb you are not from here, am I right? The sights of our city must be quite the spectacle. It is a place rich with history--a story for every brick that paves our streets or frames our hearths and homes. There is much to learn of Ishgard, and I suppose I can teach you a thing or two. If you care to listen to this old man's tales, pray meet me at Saint Reinette's Forum.

-- Ah, so you've come to partake of my company, eh? Then let me start with the statue which stands before you here. This is Saint Reinette, a dragoon of great renown said to have wielded Gae Bolg. According to legend, a dragon slew her beloved, and naught but its blood could atone for what she lost. After much searching, she confronted the beast, and that would be the last time she wielded a lance. Upon exacting her revenge, they say she cast it aside on the ground where the dragon was felled, taking up the cloth in its place. From then on, she devoted her life to uplifting the poor and downtrodden. I daresay there has never been a man or woman so selfless as she in our history. And so the Arc of the Humble was constructed, that we should never forget her sacrifices. 

-- It's perhaps worth mentioning that we of Ishgard take great pride in the works of masonry adorning our streets. You will come to find figures of great esteem and respect immortalized in some fashion at nearly every turn. Now then, let us move on to Saint Valeroyant's Forum. I shall await you there.
</div>

>> It is a place rich with history--a story for every brick that paves our streets or <b class="text-red-500">frames</b> our <b class="text-red-500">hearths</b> and homes.
>>
>
> frame  .v. 装框架；勾勒出；围绕； .n. 框架，边框；（家具、建筑物、车辆等的）构架，支架；体格，骨架；眼镜框；
>
> hearth  .n. 灶台；炉边；炉床；壁炉地面
>
>> Ah, so you've come to <b class="text-red-500">partake</b> of my company, eh?
>>
>
> partake  .v. 吃，喝；分享；参与；分担；带有某种性质
>
>> Upon <b class="text-red-500">exacting</b> her revenge, they say she cast it aside on the ground where the dragon was felled, taking up the cloth in its place.
>>
>
> exact  .v. 实施（报复）；造成重大苦难（或损失等）；强取，勒索；.adj. 确切的，精确的；严谨的，一丝不苟的；精密的，严密的
>
>> It's perhaps worth mentioning that we of Ishgard take great pride in the works of <b class="text-red-500">masonry</b> <b class="text-red-500">adorning</b> our streets.
>>
>
> masonry  .n. 石工；石工行业；石造建筑
>
> adorn  .v. 装饰；使生色
>
>> You will come to find figures of great esteem and respect immortalized in some fashion <b class="text-red-500">at nearly every turn</b>.
>>
>
> at every turn  不断地、一直、始终如一地，在每一个机会、每一个方面都如此
>
> * She faced obstacles at every turn, but she never gave up. 她在每一个机会都面临着困难，但她从未放弃。

<div class="border p-6">
Fury-fearing Elezen

-- This is--or rather, was─the statue of Saint Valeroyant, an Azure Dragoon of ages past who once drove off the great wyrm Nidhogg. Surely you've heard of the Azure Dragoon, chosen by the Eye to lead Ishgard's dragoons in the fight against the Dravanian Horde. <sigh> But alas, much like this one, a number of statues in our fair capital have been defaced during a recent attack. Not that we could ever forget in whose name they were erected, mind you. In fact, one could say these disfigurements are like a badge of honor, earned from a clash with our enemy. Quite remarkable, wouldn't you agree? History being made of history, I'd say.

-- I'm afraid that is all I have to tell of our dear city, but that glimmer in your eye tells me you wish to know more. Pray speak with Outreguerlain at Saint Reymanaud's Cathedral. I have no doubt he can regale you with another tale of Ishgard's history.
</div>

>> But alas, much like this one, a number of statues in our fair capital have been <b class="text-red-500">defaced</b> during a recent attack.
>>
>
> deface  .v. 损伤外观，丑化，毁坏
>
>> Not that we could ever forget in whose name they were <b class="text-red-500">erected</b>, mind you.
>>
>
> erect  .v. 搭建，建造；使竖立，竖起；创立，建立；安装，装配；（使）勃起
>
>> In fact, one could say these <b class="text-red-500">disfigurements</b> are like a <b class="text-red-500">badge</b> of honor, earned from a <b class="text-red-500">clash</b> with our enemy.
>>
>
> disfigurements  .n．毁容，丑化：使外貌变得丑陋或损害外观的事物。
>
> * The fire left her with severe disfigurements. 火灾使她严重毁容。
>
> badge  .n. 徽章，奖章；标记，象征
>
> clash  .n. 冲突，交战；争论，争执；交锋，比赛；分歧，差异；（金属的）撞击声；（时间上的）冲突，撞期；

<div class="border p-6">
Outreguerlain

-- Greetings, friend. Halone's blessings be upon you. Ah, you wish to know more of Ishgard's history? 'Tis not often travelers come seeking such knowledge. The Holy See of Ishgard is home to myriad patron saints for which many places are named. In fact, this cathedral was named for the first archbishop to oversee the Ishgardian Orthodox Church. They are a testament to the unshakable will of our people, to our unity in the battle against the Dravanian Horde. I realize there is much of our people you do not know, and we would not force our views upon you. Rather, we ask you not decry our pursuit of our destiny─the righteous path we walk by the grace of Halone, our truest savior.
</div>

>> Rather, we ask you not <b class="text-red-500">decry</b> our pursuit of our destiny─the righteous path we walk by the grace of Halone, our truest savior.
>>
>
> decry   .v. 责难，谴责；诽谤

<div class="border p-6">
You are greeted by an Elezen at the steps to the aetheryte plaza who immediately takes note that you are not native to Ishgard. Never one to pass up the opportunity to share his stories, he offers to show you around and regale you with tales of Ishgard's history. He asks you to meet him at Saint Reinette's Forum if you wish to hear more.

You meet up with the elderly Elezen, who proceeds to tell you of the legendary dragoon Saint Reinette for which the Arc of the Humble was named. For his next story, he asks you to speak with him at Saint Valeroyant's Forum.

The elderly Elezen tells you of Saint Valeroyant and the Azure Dragoons, those chosen by the Eye to lead the nation's dragoons into battle. Though the statue before you was erected in his image, it has been damaged much like other sections of Foundation. Despite the despoilment, however, the elderly Elezen is not disheartened by what has befallen Ishgard. He has no more stories to tell you, but suggests you speak with Outreguerlain at Saint Reymanaud's Cathedral should your thirst for knowledge remain unquenched.

Outreguerlain greets you warmly and speaks with you of the patron saints of Ishgard for which many places are named. Though there is much of Ishgard you do not yet know, he asks for your understanding that it is through their faith that the people of Ishgard have stood united in their struggle against the Horde.
</div>

>> Despite the <b class="text-red-500">despoilment</b>, however, the elderly Elezen is not disheartened by what has befallen Ishgard.
>>
>
> despoilment  .n. 剥夺；抢夺

# Drinking the Pain Away

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Gibrillont is never one to leave a patron fallen in the dumps.

Gibrillont

-- Hey, you there. Would you mind taking this bottle of mulled wine to the gentleman downstairs? He's a regular around here--and a rather affable one at that--but for a recent lack of employment, he's been looking to get deep in the cups. Thought I'd treat him to a mug of this today and keep a bit of weight in his coinpurse.

Item : Mulled Wine

-- Sour red cooked with various spices and citrus rinds over a low flame so as to preserve the alcoholic.

Bibulous Bloke

-- How...how did this happen? ...I feel as if I'm trapped within some waking nightmare.

-- What? What's this? No doubt from Gibrillont, that admirable bastard. Just what I need to drown my troubles.

-- I was a knight in the service of a proud noble family. That is, until my dear lady was accused of heresy. Everything changed after that. Their prestige, their pedigree, everything was stripped away...including me. They say drinking is merely a pause from thinking... Would that I could take from a bottomless mug... Nay, the only thing that stands to wash away is my dignity. Rather than play the drunken fool, I would like to make a gift of this to my lord. Surely this pain I bear is nothing next to his─completely unaware that his wife had committed such heinous crimes.
He is a good man. He deserves better, but this is all I can offer him now. I am loath to impose upon your kindness further, but could you take this to him in my place? To let him see me in my current state would be disgraceful. I imagine he is still at the airship landing in the Pillars.

-- My lord is likely at the airship landing, but I fear it will not be long before he departs. Please hurry.
</div>

>> Gibrillont is never one to leave a patron fallen in the dumps.
>>
>
> fallen in the dumps 被翻译为“垂头丧气”
>
>> Would you mind taking this bottle of <b class="text-red-500">mulled wine</b> to the gentleman downstairs?
>>
>
> mulled wine  热红酒：一种加入香料（例如肉桂棒、丁香和姜）并加热的红葡萄酒。
>
> * I love to drink mulled wine during the winter holidays. 我喜欢在冬季假期喝热红酒。
>
>> but for a recent lack of employment, he's been looking to get deep in the cups.
>>
>
> get deep in the cups 应该是沉迷于喝酒的意思
>
>> Thought I'd treat him to a <b class="text-red-500">mug</b> of this today and keep a bit of weight in his coinpurse.
>>
>
> mug  .n. 大杯，马克杯；一大杯的容量；
>
> keep a bit of weight in his coinpurse 应该是帮他节约一点钱
>
>> Bibulous Bloke
>>
>
> bibulous  .adj. 吸水的；嗜酒的
>
> bloke  .n. 家伙；小子
>
>> Sour red cooked with various spices and citrus rinds over a low flame so as to preserve the alcoholic.
>>
>> \>>>酸红酒，搭配上多种香料和橘子皮，经过低火慢炖保存酒精得来
>>
>
> citrus  .adj. 柑橘属植物的
>
> rind 壳；外皮
>
>> Just what I need to <b class="text-red-500">drown</b> my troubles.
>>
>
> drown  .v. （声音）压过，盖过；沉浸于，淹没于；（使）淹死
>
>> Their <b class="text-red-500">prestige</b>, their <b class="text-red-500">pedigree</b>, everything was stripped away...including me.
>>
>
> prestige  .n. 声望，威信
>
> pedigree  .n. 血统；家谱
>
>> Surely this pain I bear is nothing next to his--completely unaware that his wife had committed such <b class="text-red-500">heinous</b> crimes.
>>
>
> heinous  .adj. 可憎的；极凶恶的
>
>> To let him see me in my current state would be <b class="text-red-500">disgraceful</b>.
>>
>
> disgraceful  .adj. 不名誉的，可耻的

<div class="border p-6">
Title-stripped Noble

-- Yes? Can I help you with something?

-- After all that has happened, he still thinks to put me first... Would that I could do more for him, but alas, I have lost nearly everything. My title, my land...my wife... She was accused of heresy, and I did all within my power to advocate her innocence. But in the end there was naught I could do to forestall the hand of judgment. I was a man of great station, and yet I had never felt so low...so helpless. But the Fury has spoken, and to refuse Her is perhaps a greater crime than those thrust upon my beloved wife. Now, if you will excuse me, it is nearly time to─ Hm? Where did he run off to? I'm terribly sorry to trouble you, but would you help me look for my son? We can ill afford to be late.

-- I doubt he has gone far. Please help me find him.

Title-stripped Noble's Son

-- Father is searching for me? Then it is time... Forgive me. Father insisted we leave immediately, but I had to see for myself. This is where they took my mother to receive Halone's judgment. He said he would fight for her, that justice would be served... But in the end, justice took my mother away from us. Perhaps if I had been stronger, I could have won the battle that my father did not... Well, I must be going... Good-bye, miss.
</div>

>> to refuse Her is perhaps a greater crime than those thrust upon my beloved wife.
>>
>
> thrust upon 强加给，强迫接受
>
> * Responsibility was thrust upon him unexpectedly. 责任被突然强加给了他。

<div class="border p-6">
A regular of the Forgotten Knight has fallen on hard times, and Gibrillont is counting on a bottle of mulled wine to grant him a few moments of solace. Take the bottle that Gibrillont has given you to the bibulous bloke in the basement.

You hand over the wine to the bibulous bloke, who still seems to be reeling at the recent course of events in his life. He tells you the lady of the noble house he served was accused of heresy, leading to a series of events that ultimately ruined the family and cost him his employment. But rather than drown his sorrows in wine, he asks that you take the bottle to his former lord, as a token of appreciation for allowing him to serve the family. Deliver the bottle of mulled wine to the title-stripped lord, who you are like to find near the airship landing.

You see the bottle of wine into the hands of the title-stripped noble. While he is touched at his former knight's concern, he has already resigned himself to the judgment of Halone, and has prepared to take an airship to parts unknown with his son. However, his son is missing, and he is starting to worry. He asks that you find his son before they are late for the flight.

You find the former noble's son standing not far from the Supreme Sacred Tribunal, where his mother stood trial. His father vowed to do all within his power to save the boy's mother and see justice served. Unfortunately, justice was not what they expected it to be. As the boy turns to leave for the airship landing, he cannot help but wish there was more he could have done to protect his mother.
</div>

# Cold Days, Colder Nights

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Brictt is looking to keep warm tonight.

Brictt

-- Excuse me, miss, do you have any spare wood for a fire? A small bundle, or even a few twigs would do. <sigh> Of course not. As if a bundle of sticks could warm the hands of so many. The dragons have left Foundation in shambles. Countless men and women are without shelter, the bitter chill of death breathing down their necks. I fear some may not even live through the night.

-- Vaincannet would not turn his back on us. Please speak with him, and see if there is any firewood to spare.

Vaincannet

-- Yes? Is there aught I can help you with?

-- I see... I am hardly blind to the plight of my people, but firewood is something of a commodity these days. I cannot hand it out freely as I might otherwise. However, I may have a solution. During the most recent Dravanian assault, a number of buildings were destroyed. I thought it a grave misfortune, but there may yet be a silver lining. The timber we've collected from those buildings is unfit for reconstruction. You may take as much as you like to the Brume.

-- The destruction of those buildings is a travesty beyond measure. But perhaps we can yet make something out of a bad situation. Take as much of the wood to the Brume as you feel is necessary.

Brictt

-- Did Vaincannet consent to aid us? Was there any wood to spare?

-- My word! This is... I know not what to say! How did he amass such quantities? No matter. Go and distribute this to the people down below. We must do what we can before this cold claims any more lives. 

-- Hurry down below and hand out as much as you can. We must save as many as we can.

(You got a bundle of timber: Splintered, knotted, cracked, worm-eaten, moldering─this wood is no longer suitable for aught but maintaining a fire.)
</div>

>> A small bundle, or even a few twigs would do.
>>
>
> bundle  .n. 束，捆，包；
>
> twig  .n. 小枝，嫩枝；
>
>> The dragons have left Foundation <b class="text-red-500">in shambles</b>.
>>
>
> shamble  .n. 蹒跚；摇晃的脚步
>
> in shambles  破败不堪：形容某物或某种情况非常糟糕，处于一种破败、崩溃的状态。
>
> * After the hurricane, the town was in shambles. 飓风过后，这个小镇破败不堪。
>
>> I am hardly blind to the plight of my people, but firewood is something of a <b class="text-red-500">commodity</b> these days.
>>
>
> commodity  .n. 商品，货物；有用的东西，必需品
>
>> I thought it a grave misfortune, but there may yet be <b class="text-red-500">a silver lining</b>.
>>
>
> a silver lining  一线希望：用来强调每个困难或不愉快的情况都有一些好处。
>
> * Even in the darkest times, there is always a silver lining. 即使在最黑暗的时刻，总会有一线希望。
>
>> The <b class="text-red-500">timber</b> we've collected from those buildings is unfit for reconstruction.
>>
>
> timber  .n. 木材，原木；（用于生产木材的）林木，树林；（造屋或造船用的）大木料，栋木；
>
>> The destruction of those buildings is a <b class="text-red-500">travesty</b> beyond measure.
>>
>
> travesty  （中文解释可能不太适合这里的语境，这里贴上英文释义）something that fails to represent the values and qualities that it is intended to represent, in a way that is shocking or offensive
>
>> How did he <b class="text-red-500">amass</b> such quantities?
>>
>
> amass  .v. 积累，积聚；
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">Splintered</b>, knotted, cracked, worm-eaten, <b class="text-red-500">moldering</b>─this wood is no longer suitable for aught but maintaining a fire.
>>
>
> splinter  .v. 分裂；裂成碎片
>
> molder   .v. 腐朽，腐烂；碎裂，崩塌

<div class="border p-6">
Frozen Vagrant

-- I can bear this cold no longer. <sniffle> Perhaps... Perhaps I should... Wh-What? Firewood? ...Bless you, miss. Bless you!

Freezing Vagrant

-- Bah! What I wouldn't give for a bit of kindlin'. For me? Truly? So it's true what they say about askin' and receivin'. Thank you!

Frostbitten Vagrant

-- It's s-so cold... I...I c-cannot feel my h-hands anymore. W-W-Wood for a fire! Oh th-thank you, miss. Th-Thank you.

Osaulie

-- It's cold... So very cold...

-- Firewood!? Oh, Halone be praised! My, that's quite a load of timber there. Surely you don't mean to distribute that all by yourself? Why not let me handle that for you? It's the least I can do to repay your kindness. Leave it to me! I know these streets like the back of my hand. Folks'll be warming themselves all along these streets in no time flat! Thanks again, miss. Well, be seeing you!

Brictt

-- You do our patron saints proud. Now then, let us take what remains somewhere safe.

-- What? A young Elezen girl offered to ration out the rest for you? <sigh> I am afraid to say you have been duped. She is a thief, and rather well known here in the Brume. She bears no ill intentions, but this is a fair deal more serious than her usual antics. These are hard times, and I understand how destitution drives one to desperation. But we cannot afford to tolerate her selfish actions. Not now. I pray no one shall want for warmth tonight, but we must recover the firewood, and soon.
</div>

>> What I wouldn't give for a bit of kindlin'.
>>
>
> （这句话分成两段看，what I wouldn't give和for a bit of kindling，注意后面是kindle+ing火种，所以整个句子的意思是为了一点火种，我什么都愿意做）
>
>> Frozen Vagrant;  Freezing <b class="text-red-500">Vagrant</b>;   <b class="text-red-500">Frostbitten</b> Vagrant
>>
>
> vagrant   .n. 流浪者，乞丐； .adj.  流浪（者）的，流浪生活的；无定向的，游移不定的；<文>无常的
>
> frostbite .adj. 冻伤的
>
>> I know these streets like the back of my hand.
>>
>
>> Folks'll be warming themselves all along these streets <b class="text-red-500">in no time flat</b>!
>>
>
> in no time flat  立刻，马上：表示某事将会在非常短的时间内发生或完成。
>
> * He finished the race in no time flat.  他在非常短的时间内完成了比赛。
>
>> A young Elezen girl offered to <b class="text-red-500">ration</b> out the rest for you?
>>
>
> ration  .v.  对（供应品）定量供应，实行配给；对（某人）实行定量供给，配给
>
>> I am afraid to say you have been <b class="text-red-500">duped</b>.
>>
>
> dupe   .v. 欺骗；愚弄；
>
>> She bears no ill intentions, but this is a fair deal more serious than her usual <b class="text-red-500">antics</b>.
>>
>
> antic .n. 滑稽动作；丑角
>
>> These are hard times, and I understand how <b class="text-red-500">destitution</b> drives one to desperation.
>>
>
> destitution  .n. 穷困；缺乏

<div class="border p-6">
Brictt tells you of the recent attacks on Ishgard, and how many men and women are now left freezing on the streets of Foundation. He asks that you speak with Vaincannet at the Congregation of Our Knights Most Heavenly and request whatever firewood they can spare.

You speak with Vaincannet and make it clear to him just how dire the situation is in Foundation. Although there is no firewood to spare, he offers an alternate solution. A number of buildings were destroyed in a recent dragon attack, and the lumber from these buildings cannot be used again for construction. Therefore, you are welcome to use the scrap wood as fuel for the needed fires. Return to the Brume and show Brictt the bundle of scrap wood.

You show the bundle of scrap wood to Brictt, and the embers of hope in his eyes are rekindled. He asks that you ration out the wood to the freezing vagrants down below in the Brume.

You pass out the wood to several freezing vagrants, but there may still be others in need of a warm fire tonight. Continue searching for townsfolk in need of scrap wood.

You find a young Elezen girl cold and alone in an alleyway. You offer her scrap wood and she is overwhelmed by your hospitality─so much so that she offers to distribute the remaining scrap wood in your stead. Being intimately familiar with the Brume, she guarantees to have the job done without delay. Report to Brictt and tell him the good news.

Brictt is pleased to hear the people of the Brume will stay warm for another night. When you tell him of your young Elezen helper, however, his face turns stern. Osaulie, the child who ran off with the scrap wood, is well known for thievery, and now her antics have jeopardized the well-being of all those seeking respite from the cold. You need to retrieve the scrap wood before it is too late.
</div>

>> Therefore, you are welcome to use the <b class="text-red-500">scrap</b> wood as fuel for the needed fires.
>>
>
> scrap   .adj. （金属、纸张）废弃的，报废的；零碎的
>
>> You show the bundle of scrap wood to Brictt, and the <b class="text-red-500">embers</b> of hope in his eyes are rekindled.
>>
>
> ember  .n. 余火，余烬；
>
>> You find a young Elezen girl cold and alone in an <b class="text-red-500">alleyway</b>.
>>
>
> alleyway  .n. 胡同；小巷；窄街；走廊
>
>> Being <b class="text-red-500">intimately</b> familiar with the Brume, she guarantees to have the job done without delay.
>>
>
> intimately  .adv. 熟悉地；亲切地；私下地
>
>> When you tell him of your young Elezen helper, however, his face turns <b class="text-red-500">stern</b>.
>>
>
> stern  .adj. （人或其态度）严厉的，认真的；
>
>> Osaulie, the child who <b class="text-red-500">ran off with</b> the scrap wood, is well known for <b class="text-red-500">thievery</b>, and now her antics have jeopardized the well-being of all those seeking <b class="text-red-500">respite</b> from the cold.
>>
>
> ran off with   离开某地并带走（某物）。
>
> thievery  .n. 赃物；偷窃；盗窃事件
>
> respite  .n.（不快或困难的）暂缓，暂延；（做不喜欢的事之前的）暂缓，喘息  .v. <罕>暂缓执行（判决），暂缓履行（义务等）

# Caught in the Act

**Note: the previous quest is **​Cold Days, Colder Nights​**(( "."))**

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Elaisse is waiting for something with bated breath.

Elaisse

-- The trap is set. All I can do now is wait... Ah, are you not the new ward of House Fortemps? The city is practically buzzing with talk of you. I don't suppose you could spare a moment? A thief has been pilfering the profits of merchants here at the Jeweled Crozier, and I mean to flush him out. I placed three sacks of counterfeit coins about the lane as bait. Could you check to see if any are missing?

-- If the thief has taken any of the sacks, my trap will have been sprung. Please go see if they are still there.

(Check the three sack of conterfeit coins)

Elaisse

-- It looks as though they've taken the bait. Excellent. What they've likely failed to note, however, is the hole in the bottom of the sack. Not a gaping hole, mind you. Just large enough for a coin or two to trickle out as they flee to their hiding place. Let us follow the trail and see who is behind all this.

-- The hole in the sack is fairly small, so I doubt they noticed the occasional coin falling to the ground. Follow the trail. They cannot hide now.
</div>

>> Elaisse is waiting for something with <b class="text-red-500">bated breath</b>.
>>
>
> bated breath  屏息以待；急切地（比较常见的还是用在令人极度兴奋的场景下）
>
> * The audience waited with bated breath for the winner to be announced. 观众们屏息以待，等待着宣布获胜者。
>
>> The city is practically buzzing with talk of you.
>>
>
>> A thief has been <b class="text-red-500">pilfering</b> the profits of merchants here at the Jeweled Crozier, and I mean to <b class="text-red-500">flush him out</b>.
>>
>
> pilfer  .v. 偷窃；小偷小摸
>
> flush out 驱赶或揭露某物或某人，如从掩蔽处驱赶或揭露猎鸟或其他猎物
>
>> I placed three sacks of <b class="text-red-500">counterfeit</b> coins <b class="text-red-500">about</b> the lane as bait.
>>
>
> counterfeit   .adj. 伪造的，假冒的；
>
> （注意这里的about是周围的意思）
>
>> If the thief has taken any of the sacks, my trap will have been <b class="text-red-500">sprung</b>.
>>
>
> sprung   .v. 蹦跳；突然弹起；突然启动；惊起（猎鸟）；
>
>> Just large enough for a coin or two to <b class="text-red-500">trickle out</b> as they flee to their hiding place.
>>
>
> trickle out  逐渐流出：缓慢地、逐渐地流出或泄漏出来。
>
> * News of the scandal began to trickle out to the public. 丑闻的消息开始逐渐流传到公众。

<div class="border p-6">
Osaulie

-- Wh-What!? What are you giving me that look for? Is it a crime to stand around, minding my own business? Leave me alone!

Elaisse

-- So, what did you find at the end of the trail? A young girl, you say. No doubt she's the thief from the Brume I've heard so much about. I can't imagine the pain she must feel, alone in the world at a time such as this. My heart goes out to her, it truly does, but stealing is simply inexcusable. If she's as clever as people claim her to be, she will know not to try something so foolish again.
</div>

>> Is it a crime to <b class="text-red-500">stand around</b>, minding my own business?
>>
>
> stand around 站着不做任何事情：指站在某处等待或闲逛而没有做任何事情。
>
>> My heart goes out to her, it truly does, but stealing is simply inexcusable.
>>

<div class="border p-6">
A thief has been stealing money from the shops along the Jeweled Crozier and Elaisse has had enough. She has placed three sacks in the area containing counterfeit coins, and is waiting for the thief to take her bait. Check the sacks of counterfeit coins and see if her traps are still in place.

After taking a look around the Jeweled Crozier, you find one of the bags is missing. Return to Elaisse and tell her the trap has been sprung.

Letting the thief steal her bag of coins was only the first step of her plan. A small hole has been cut in the bottom, and the coins spilling from it will make a trail leading to the culprit. Follow the counterfeit coins and find who is behind this rash of robberies.

Following the trail of coins leads you to Osaulie, the young thief you encountered in the Brume. She runs away before you can reprimand her for what she has done. In her haste, she leaves behind the sack of counterfeit coins. Retrieve the sack and see what remains.

You retrieve the sack of counterfeit coins. Though its load has been lightened, it was all according to plan. Return to Elaisse and reveal to her the culprit's identity.

You tell Elaisse that Osaulie was the thief making off with the merchants' money. She immediately recognizes the name of the Brume's most notorious thief. Although she was not apprehended, Elaisse suspects Osaulie has learned her lesson, and will no longer be a nuisance to the Jeweled Crozier.
</div>

>> A thief has been stealing money from the shops along the Jeweled Crozier and Elaisse has had enough.
>>
>
>> After taking a look around the Jeweled Crozier, you find one of the bags is missing. 
>>
>
>> Return to Elaisse and tell her the trap has been sprung.
>>
>
>> A small hole has been cut in the bottom, and the coins spilling from it will make a trail leading to the <b class="text-red-500">culprit</b>.
>>
>
> culprit   .n. 罪犯，过失者；问题的起因
>
>> Follow the counterfeit coins and find who is behind this <b class="text-red-500">rash</b> of robberies.
>>
>
> rash  .n. 一连串（不愉快的事）
>
>> She runs away before you can <b class="text-red-500">reprimand</b> her for what she has done.
>>
>
> reprimand  .v. 谴责
>
>> In her haste, she leaves behind the sack of counterfeit coins.
>>
>
>> Though its load has been lightened, it was all according to plan.
>>
>
>> You tell Elaisse that Osaulie was the thief <b class="text-red-500">making off with</b> the merchants' money.
>>
>
> make off with 偷窃并逃跑：指偷走某物并逃离现场。
>
>> Although she was not apprehended, Elaisse suspects Osaulie has learned her lesson, and will no longer be a <b class="text-red-500">nuisance</b> to the Jeweled Crozier.
>>
>
> nuisance  .n. 麻烦事，讨厌的人（或事物、情况）；损害，妨害；骚扰行为，妨害行为

# Unfulfilled Dreams

**Note: The previous quest is **​Caught in the Act

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- The bleak nights of Ishgard have never felt colder for Brictt.

-- Do you remember Osaulie, the young girl who deceived you for our firewood? I don't mean to alarm you, but...her body was found this morning, huddled in a corner of the Brume. No doubt her life was snuffed out by the cold of night. Something about this doesn't sit right with me. Contemptible though her actions have been, I won't deny that she was good at what she did. That she could not afford firewood or even shelter for the night is unthinkable. How could this have happened? Word travels fast in the Brume, and news of its greatest thief's passing has likely reached the taverns by now. See what you can glean from talk in the Forgotten Knight. Failing that, you may find a clue among her belongings down in the Brume.

-- Word of anything worth knowing will surely find its way to the Forgotten Knight. Her belongings down in the Brume may also tell us of what happened.

Drunken Knight

-- That ratty little pickpocket? I didn't talk to her so much as she stopped to hear my grumbling. Can't say I recall hearing that name, though. I'd just returned from Camp Cloudtop, and she overheard me griping about the place. She practically hung on my every word. Not that I had much to say─there's practically nothing to do there. Tending the crops, hours of mindless surveillance duty. The only thing to fear there is a slow, painful death from boredom. But anyroad, the kid started to bother me after a while, so I told her to get lost.

-- I hope you don't think I had anything to do with the girl's passing. I was here in the bar all night. Gibrillont'll vouch for me.
</div>

>> <b class="text-red-500">unfulfilled</b> dreams
>>
>
> unfulfilled  .adj. 未满足的，未实现的；壮志未酬的
>
>> The <b class="text-red-500">bleak</b> nights of Ishgard have never felt colder for Brictt.
>>
>
> bleak  .adj. 不乐观的，无望的；无遮掩的，荒凉的；阴冷的，寒冷的；沮丧的，阴郁的；（人或其表情）冷漠的，冷峻的
>
>> I don't mean to alarm you, but...her body was found this morning, <b class="text-red-500">huddled</b> in a corner of the Brume.
>>
>
> huddle   .v. 蜷缩，依偎；
>
>> No doubt her life was <b class="text-red-500">snuffed out</b> by the cold of night.
>>
>
> snuff out  熄灭，停止一个过程，杀死，抹去
>
> * The firefighters worked hard to snuff out the fire. 消防员们努力扑灭火灾。
>
>> Something about this doesn't <b class="text-red-500">sit right</b> with me.
>>
>
> sit right 
>
> 1. 适合某人的体质；不会引起胃部不适或生病
>
>     I ate something that didn't sit right with me and now I have a stomachache. 我吃了一些对我来说不适合的东西，现在胃疼。
> 2. 使人感到舒适；似乎合适或可接受
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">Contemptible</b> though her actions have been, I won't deny that she was good at what she did.
>>
>
> contemptible  .adj. 可鄙的，卑劣的
>
>> Word of anything worth knowing will surely find its way to the Forgotten Knight.
>>
>
>> That ratty little pickpocket?
>>
>
>> I'd just returned from Camp Cloudtop, and she overheard me <b class="text-red-500">griping about</b> the place. She practically hung on my every word.
>>
>
> gripe about 抱怨，发牢骚：表达不满或抱怨某事或某人。
>
>> Tending the crops, hours of mindless <b class="text-red-500">surveillance</b> duty.
>>
>
> surveillance  .n. 监视，监察
>
>> I was here in the bar all night. Gibrillont'll <b class="text-red-500">vouch</b> for me.
>>
>
> vouch  .v. 担保；证明；

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- You find a sack filled with Osaulie's belongings. Among them you discover a sizable amount of gil and recruitment flyers for Camp Cloudtop.

(You got: A hempen bag containing the worldly possessions of now-deceased petty thief Osaulie.)

Brictt

-- I see. So the poor child was looking to find peace in the Sea of Clouds. In light of all that has befallen Ishgard, I cannot blame her. She was made an orphan long ago by the war, and attacks by the Horde only grow more terrifying. A land free of dragons must have seemed a paradise to her. But dreams will guard no one from the chill of night. <sigh> If only she had reached out to someone─anyone at all... Would that I could turn back the hands of time. It saddens my heart to know she will never see her dreams made reality. But perhaps there's a way we can honor her courage. Would you take her things to Camp Cloudtop, and set up a small memorial of sorts?

-- That poor child. She will never see the Sea of Clouds, but in this way, we can see that she completes the journey in spirit.

System Guide

-- You place Osaulie's belongings in the shade of a large flowering plant. A young girl's laughter seems to echo on the breeze...

Brictt

-- Thank you, friend. Though her life was filled with hardships, perhaps now she will find peace in the hereafter. But no child should have to pay such a high price to know peace, and I believe there will come a day when the dawn rises on an Ishgard free of war.
</div>

>> Among them you discover a sizable amount of gil and recruitment <b class="text-red-500">flyers</b> for Camp Cloudtop.
>>
>
> flyer  .n. 传单；飞鸟；飞行物；
>
>> A <b class="text-red-500">hempen</b> bag containing the <b class="text-red-500">worldly</b> possessions of now-<b class="text-red-500">deceased</b> petty thief Osaulie.
>>
>
> hempen  .adj. 大麻的，大麻制的
>
> worldly  .adj. 世俗地
>
> deceased  .adj. 已故的
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">In light of</b> all that has befallen Ishgard, I cannot blame her.
>>
>
> In light of  基于某种情况或信息，考虑到某事或在某种情况下
>
> * In light of recent events, we have decided to cancel the concert. 基于最近的事件，我们决定取消音乐会。
>
>> She was made an <b class="text-red-500">orphan</b> long ago by the war, and attacks by the Horde only grow more terrifying.
>>
>
> orphan .n. 孤儿
>
>> But dreams will guard no one from the chill of night.
>>
>
>> If only she had <b class="text-red-500">reached out to</b> someone─anyone at all...Would that I could turn back the hands of time.
>>
>
> reach out to 向（某人）提供帮助或支持；试图引起（某人）的注意和兴趣 （注意这里是被动语态）
>
>> It saddens my heart to know she will never see her dreams made reality.
>>
>
>> Though her life was filled with hardships, perhaps now she will find peace in the <b class="text-red-500">hereafter</b>.
>>
>
> hereafter  .n. 死后生活；死后的灵魂存在；来世，阴世；将来

<div class="border p-6">
Brictt regretfully informs you that Osaulie, the young thief you encountered in the Brume, recently passed away. But something about this whole affair doesn't sit right with him. What he finds most troubling about this is how such a resourceful girl could not afford to guard herself against the chilly nights of Ishgard. Brictt asks that you speak with patrons at the Forgotten Knight and find her belongings for clues.

You speak with a drunken knight in the tavern and find Osaulie's belongings in the Brume. The knight tells you she listened intently to his stories of Camp Cloudtop, a quiet, dragon–free settlement in the Sea of Clouds. Amongst her belongings are flyers for this encampment and a large sum of gil. Return to Brictt and tell him of what you learned.

You tell Brictt of the conversation in the Forgotten Knight, and when he sees the gil and flyers in her bag, all the pieces fall into place. Osaulie was orphaned years ago after an attack by dragons, and he suspects she longed to escape Ishgard. In the end, her desire to save every last coin of her money cost her life. Brictt is saddened that a child with such determination could be denied her dream. As a small gesture of respect, he asks you take her belongings to Camp Cloudtop and erect a small memorial in her honor.

You travel to Camp Cloudtop. You place her belongings down in the shade of a large flower when a sound reminiscent of laughter briefly catches your attention. Return to Brictt and tell him the deed has been done.

Brictt thanks you for taking time to pay tribute to Osaulie's efforts. The end of the Dragonsong War is not yet in sight, but he believes someday the realm will escape the bloody grasp of conflict.
</div>

>> What he finds most troubling about this is how such a resourceful girl could not afford to guard herself against the chilly nights of Ishgard.
>>
>
>> Amongst her belongings are flyers for this <b class="text-red-500">encampment</b> and a large sum of gil.
>>
>
> encampment  .n. 营地；露营
>
>> You tell Brictt of the conversation in the Forgotten Knight, and when he sees the gil and flyers in her bag, all the pieces fall into place.
>>
>
> fall into place  拼合在一起；变得合理（所以all the pieces fall into place应该就是一切都能说得通了）
>
>> As a small gesture of respect, he asks you take her belongings to Camp Cloudtop and erect a small memorial in her honor.
>>
>
>> Brictt thanks you for taking time to pay <b class="text-red-500">tribute</b> to Osaulie's efforts.
>>
>
> tribute   .n. （表示敬意的）礼物，颂辞，行为；（良好效果或影响的）体现，显示；（尤指旧时一国向他国交纳的）贡品，贡金；
>
>> The end of the Dragonsong War is not yet in sight, but he believes someday the realm will escape the bloody grasp of conflict.
>>

# Mum's the Word

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- This House Durendair knight needs an adventurer who can keep a secret.

This House Durendair knight

-- Excuse me. Um...you're not from around here, are you? I know this is sudden, but I have a favor to ask. I'm looking for someone to deliver a gift to a friend in Falcon's Nest. What is it? Well, it's a surprise, so I can't really say. I... I just need you to deliver it, that's all. You can pick it up from the knight of the brush at the Forgotten Knight. You'll know him when you see him. And I'm sure he'll recognize you, as well.

-- All you have to do is pick it up, and deliver it to Falcon's Nest. The knight of the brush will be waiting for you at the Forgotten Knight.

Knight of the Brush

-- Ah, there you are. I thought it might be you. So it's true? You're not from Ishgard? Perfect, no one will suspect a thing. Here's the package, my dear lady. Whoa, hey! Don't wave it all about like that! Someone may see! Now hurry on to Falcon's Nest; you'll want to deliver it to Emerissel. And remember: this meeting never happened. If anyone asks, you don't know me.

-- Hurry and take that package to Falcon's Nest, before you start drawing attention.

(You got a painting: An oil painting depicting the Fury helmed and astride a dragon.)

Emerissel

-- What's with that look? We don't tolerate funny business here at Falcon's Nest. If you have no business here, I suggest you move along.

-- Oh! My package! Happy day! I was worried my friend would not be able to get it... Now, let's take a look here... A masterpiece beyond compare! The very glory of it inspires an indescribable fulfillment─a crescendo of righteous emotions. I feel my faith in the church renewed, my spirit cleansed by its presence! Ahem. Thank you for this, adventurer. Remember: no one must know of this!
</div>

>> A masterpiece beyond compare!
>>
>
>> The very glory of it inspires an indescribable fulfillment─a <b class="text-red-500">crescendo</b> of righteous emotions.
>>
>
> fulfillment  .n. 履行；实行；
>
> crescendo  .adj. 渐强的

<div class="border p-6">
Seeing you are not native to Ishgard, a knight of House Durendaire requests a favor of you. He asks that you deliver a gift to Falcon's Nest. What the gift is, he is not at liberty to say. All he can tell you is that the knight of the brush has a package waiting for you at the Forgotten Knight.

You arrive at the Forgotten Knight, and the knight of the brush recognizes you right away. He hands you the package, insisting that you do not open the box. It is not safe to be seen out in the open. He insists that you head to Falcon's Nest and deliver the package to Emerissel. And if anyone asks, you and the knight of the brush have never met.

Emerissel is curious why you give him such strange looks─that is, until he sees the package. One glimpse of the painting wrapped inside sends him into the throes of a strange euphoric experience, ranting about renewed religious fervor. He soon regains his composure and asks you to keep this all secret. However, you cannot shake the feeling that you have done something terribly wrong.
</div>

>> Seeing you are not native to Ishgard, a knight of House Durendaire requests a favor of you.
>>
>
>> What the gift is, he is not at liberty to say.
>>
>
>> One glimpse of the painting wrapped inside sends him into the throes of a strange <b class="text-red-500">euphoric</b> experience, <b class="text-red-500">ranting about</b> renewed <b class="text-red-500">religious</b> fervor.
>>
>
> throe  .n. 阵痛；剧痛（注意这个居然是可数名词，throes是一阵阵地剧痛，但这里的throes of 应该就是一阵阵地）
>
> euphoric  .adj. 欣快的；极度兴奋的，情绪高涨的
>
> rant   .v. 咆哮，叫嚷；大声抱怨；夸夸其谈
>
> rant about 对……进行长篇大论的抱怨或批评：表达对某事物或某人的不满或不满意，通常是情绪化的、激烈的言辞。
>
> religious   .adj. 宗教的，与宗教相关的；笃信宗教的，虔诚的；极其严谨的，十分认真的；
>
>> He soon regains his <b class="text-red-500">composure</b> and asks you to keep this all secret.
>>
>
> composure  .n. 镇静；沉着
>
>> However, you cannot <b class="text-red-500">shake the feeling</b> that you have done something terribly wrong.
>>
>
> shake the feeling  摆脱感觉：尝试去除某种情感或感觉，通常是负面的或不舒服的感觉。
>
> * I can't seem to shake the feeling that something bad is going to happen.  我似乎无法摆脱一种不祥的预感。

# Dinner for Four

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Torsefers seeks assistance with a rather delicate issue.

Torsefers

-- Excuse me, adventurer. I would ask a favor of you on behalf of House Fortemps. My lord is hosting a banquet, and requests attendance from the other High Houses. Take these invitations and see they are delivered at once. Of course, you will likely not be granted an audience with the lords and ladies of the High Houses. Leaving these with the guards will do, but they must be delivered.

-- Do not let the guards intimidate you. If they will not permit you entry, leave the invitations with them.

(You got 3 Formal Invitations: A sealed envelop containing an official invitation to a banquet hosted by House Fortemps.)

Bartelot

-- What business have you with House Haillenarte?

-- An invitation to dine with House Fortemps? Me lord would be honored to attend. But I'm afraid he's quite busy at present, what with the breach of Ishgard's defenses and rising heretic activity. Can't rightly say he's too busy, though. That's for him to decide. You have me word this invitation'll be delivered.

-- I'll deliver this invitation personally. You have me word.

Jainelette

-- This is the residence of House Dzemael. If you have no business here, I must ask you to leave.

-- A banquet hosted by House Fortemps? I see. ...Hm? Oh, it's nothing. It's just... My lord has been tied up with the restoration of Falcon's Nest. I imagine making time to attend will be difficult. Nevertheless, I will see to it he receives the invitation.

-- My lord is a busy man, but you can be sure he will have this invitation.

Framoncis

-- What business brings you to House Durendaire? Speak up.

-- A dinner with House Fortemps? Hmph. And whose favor do they aim to gain this time? Not that it concerns you, but House Durendaire and Fortemps don't exactly see eye to eye. Little wonder they would ask you to deliver this missive. But far be it from me to exacerbate matters... The invitation will be delivered. What my lord does with it is not my concern.

-- The invitation will be delivered in due time. Now please, stop loitering about the manor.

Torsefers

-- Ah, and so you have returned. I hope you were not met with too much hostility. The High Houses of Ishgard are descended from the heroes who once fought alongside Haldrath, the first Azure Dragoon. Their ancestors were the founders of Ishgard, and it is from their bloodlines the archbishop is chosen. There is no force greater than their combined strength when pitted against the Horde. When vying for power here in Ishgard, however, they are like coeurls fighting for territory in a small pit. To involve yourself in politics here is a dangerous game. You would do well to remember that.
</div>

>> Torsefers seeks assistance with a rather <b class="text-red-500">delicate issue</b>.
>>
>
> delicate issue  敏感问题：指那些需要小心处理、不易触及的问题，可能会引起争议或冲突。
>
> * The company is facing a delicate issue regarding employee layoffs.  公司正面临着一项关于员工裁员的敏感问题。
>
>> Not that it concerns you, but House Durendaire and Fortemps don't exactly <b class="text-red-500">see eye to eye</b>.
>>
>
> see eye to eye  意见一致，达成共识
>
> * We don't always see eye to eye on everything, but we respect each other's opinions. 我们并不总是在所有事情上意见一致，但我们尊重彼此的观点。
>
>> But far be it from me to <b class="text-red-500">exacerbate</b> matters...
>>
>
> exacerbate  .v. 使恶化，使加剧
>
>> There is no force greater than their combined strength when <b class="text-red-500">pitted against</b> the Horde.
>>
>
> pit against 使（某人或某物）与（另一个人或物）对抗或竞争
>
>> When <b class="text-red-500">vying</b> for power here in Ishgard, however, they are like coeurls fighting for territory in a small pit.
>>
>
> vie   .v. 争夺，激烈竞争（现在分词vying）

<div class="border p-6">
House Fortemps is preparing to host a banquet, and invitations must be delivered to the other High Houses. Assuming you will be unable to meet with the lords and ladies of each house, Torsefers asks that you deliver invitations to the guards standing watch at each house.

You speak with Bartelot at Haillenarte Manor and hand him the banquet invitation. He regretfully informs you that, although his lord would be pleased by the invitation, he has been kept busy in the wake of recent Dravanian assaults and matters concerning heretics. Move on to Dzemael Manor and deliver the next invitation.

You reach Dzemael Manor to find Jainelette standing guard outside. She tells you that her lord has been preoccupied with the restoration of Falcon's Nest and has little time for aught else. Nevertheless, she promises to see the invitation delivered. Proceed to Durendaire Manor to deliver the last invitation.

You deliver the invitation to Framoncis standing guard at Durendaire Manor, and he finds the proposed banquet to be suspect at best. He goes on to tell you that House Durendaire and House Fortemps are not on good terms. He agrees to deliver the invitation if only to prevent undue tension between the two houses. Report to Torsefers and inform him the invitations have been delivered.

You return to Torsefers empty-handed, and he is thankful for your assistance. He tells you that the four High Houses are descended from the heroes who helped establish Ishgard. Although they are a formidable alliance in the face of their Dravanian enemies, they are quick to turn on one another when seeking political clout. He warns you to be careful, as making new friends may also result in new enemies.
</div>

>> She tells you that her lord has been preoccupied with the restoration of Falcon's Nest and has little time for aught else.
>>
>
>> You deliver the invitation to Framoncis standing guard at Durendaire Manor, and he finds the proposed banquet to be suspect <b class="text-red-500">at best</b>.
>>
>
> at best  在最好的情况下：表示某事物或情况的最优状态或最高水平。
>
> * Even with the best efforts, the project will only be completed at best. 即使尽最大努力，这个项目也只能在最好的情况下完成。
>
>> He goes on to tell you that House Durendaire and House Fortemps are not <b class="text-red-500">on good terms</b>.
>>
>
> on good terms  友好相处；关系良好
>
> * They had a disagreement in the past, but now they are on good terms. 他们过去有过争执，但现在他们关系很好。
>
>> He agrees to deliver the invitation if only to prevent <b class="text-red-500">undue</b> tension between the two houses.
>>
>
> undue  .adj. 不适当的，过分的；
>
>> Although they are a <b class="text-red-500">formidable</b> alliance in the face of their Dravanian enemies, they are quick to <b class="text-red-500">turn on one another</b> when seeking political <b class="text-red-500">clout</b>.
>>
>
> formidable  .adj. 可怕的，令人敬畏的；（形状、数量）巨大的；难对付的
>
> turn on one another 相互攻击：指一群人或组织中的成员开始相互攻击或互相指责。
>
> clout  .n. 影响力；势力

# An Unwanted Delivery

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Torsefers looks sick with worry.

Torsefers

-- I look worried? Nonsense. Why would I have anything to be worried about? <sigh> Okay... I suppose there is no harm in telling you. Lord Emmanellain requests I deliver a missive to Lady Laniaitte at the Rosehouse. I remember him specifically mentioning that failure would not be tolerated. It is a simple task, yet the thought of something going awry has my stomach in knots. I am loath to thrust my duties upon another, but... Would you be willing to deliver this missive? I cannot afford to take chances. Surely a woman of your talents can see the deed done without fail. Please, you are my only hope!

-- When you arrive at the Rosehouse, take the missive directly to Lady Laniaitte. No detours. There can be no mistakes with this delivery.

(Got Rose-scented Letter: If the sickly-sweet words of eternal love contained within this missive are not enough to induce nausea, the copious amounts of rose oil applied to the parchment most certainly will.)

Laniaitte

-- Ah, Luna. You're looking well, but what brings you here to Cloudtop? If there is aught you require, you need only ask.

(Hand over Emmanellain's funny missive to Laniatte)

-- <sniff> Rose oil? Ugh, a letter from Lord Emmanellain. I'm terribly sorry about this. I never imagined he would attempt something so shameless. I'm afraid to say he's always been like this. House Haillenarte and House Fortemps have always maintained good relations, and as such, those close in years often spend time together from an early age. I spent much of my youth playing together with Lord Emmanellain, but now... I fear he still clings too tightly to memories of our youth. Though I admit it is sometimes to my benefit. Unfortunately, I cannot say the same for Torsefers. No doubt he asked you to come in his place. I can sympathize with his anxiety over upsetting Lord Emmanellain, but this is no way to treat a guest. Please accept this as a token of my apology. I realize it's not much, but it is all I can offer at present.
</div>

>> Torsefers looks <b class="text-red-500">sick with</b> worry.
>>
>
> sick with  被某种情绪或感觉所困扰：指某人因某种情绪或感觉而感到不舒服或困扰。
>
> * He is sick with worry. 他因担心而感到不舒服。
>
>> It is a simple task, yet the thought of something <b class="text-red-500">going awry</b> has my stomach in knots.
>>
>
> go awry  出岔子
>
>> I am loath to <b class="text-red-500">thrust</b> my duties upon another, but... Would you be willing to deliver this missive?
>>
>
> thrust   .v. 猛推，猛塞；刺，扎；（人）推进，挤过；
>
>> I cannot afford to <b class="text-red-500">take chances</b>.
>>
>
> take chance 冒险尝试：采取一种可能会带来风险或不确定结果的行动或决定。
>
>> No <b class="text-red-500">detours</b>. There can be no mistakes with this delivery.
>>
>
> detour  .n. 绕行，迂回；
>
>> If the sickly-sweet words of eternal love contained within this missive are not enough to induce <b class="text-red-500">nausea</b>, the <b class="text-red-500">copious</b> amounts of rose oil applied to the <b class="text-red-500">parchment</b> most certainly will.
>>
>
> nausea  .n. 恶心，呕吐感；极端的憎恶
>
> copious  .adj. 丰富的；很多的；多产的
>
> parchment   .n. 羊皮纸；羊皮纸文稿
>
>> I fear he still clings too tightly to memories of our youth.
>>

<div class="border p-6">
Lord Emmanellain has tasked Torsefers with delivering a letter to Lady Laniaitte at the Rosehouse in the Sea of Clouds. Fearing that something may go wrong─and thereby incurring the wrath of Lord Emmanellain─Torsefers asks you to deliver it in his stead.

You deliver the letter to Lady Laniaitte, and the overpowering fragrance of roses tells her immediately who sent it. As she tells it, she and Lord Emmanellain have known one another since childhood. Though he is a man grown, his behavior can still be childish at times.
</div>

>> Fearing that something may go wrong─and thereby incurring the wrath of Lord Emmanellain─Torsefers asks you to deliver it in his stead.
>>

‍
