---
title: 2. The Best Laid Plans
---

## The Best Laid Plans

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Cliaux cannot help but frown as she reads over her work.

Cliaux

-- You've the look of someone in need of a task. Well, it just so happens I am looking for a helping hand. One of our delivery airships is under repairs, and we're in the midst of preparing a test flight. Ensuring a safe flight path is of the utmost importance, and I need someone to take this flight plan to Jannequinard at the Athenaeum Astrologicum. I would be ever grateful if you could take it to him.

-- We cannot afford for anything to go awry with this test. Please see this plan to Jannequinard immediately. You will find him at the Athenaeum Astrologicum.

(You got Airship Flight Plan: A slip of parchment documenting plans for an airship test flight.)

Jannequinard

-- Greetings and welcome to the Athenaeum Astrologicum. Might I ask what drew you here to this place of learning?

(You hand over the airship Flight Plan that Miss Cliaux offered you)

-- Ah, a missive from Miss Cliaux? Another test flight, I see. And it leaves us pressed for time... Our knowledge of the dragons' hunting cycles indicates they will be quite active around this time. I need not tell you what will happen should any of our airships encounter them. That is why our astrologians must interpret the stars for signs of Dravanian activity before airships are permitted leave. Hmmm... But delaying this shipment would have grave repercussions. Our only option is to hasten repairs on the airship. Pray speak with Fromelaut at the Skysteel Manufactory and see if there is aught he can do.

-- If this test is to be conducted in a timely manner, they will have to be quick about the repairs. Speak with Fromelaut about this. You can find him at the Skysteel Manufactory.

Fromelaut

(You convey the urgency of repairing the airship which the Cliaux and Jannequinard are worring about)

-- Hasten repairs of the airship? Easier said than done, my friend. We primarily oversee the production of dragon-slaying weapons such as ballistas and Bertha cannons under orders from House Haillenarte. The magitek utilized in these airships is most certainly not within our regular field of expertise; it is no simple matter to rush anything... <sigh> But I suppose if we are to contend with the Horde, it cannot be helped. Tell Cliaux we will do what we can.

-- While I'm not sure how we'll manage it, diverting more of our men to work on the repairs should satisfy Cliaux's flight schedule. Please inform her we will finish as quickly as we're able.

Cliaux

-- Oh, thank goodness. The swiftness of your report is most appreciated. The advent of the airship is truly a wonderful thing, but not without its hindrances, as you can see. They allow us to cross the ice wall blocking passage to western Coerthas and navigate the Sea of Clouds. But Halone have mercy on the ship that should encounter dragons... That is why the Holy See has seen fit to employ machinists and astrologians in the operation of our airships.
</div>

>> The best laid plans.
>>
>
> lay plan  制定计划：为实现某个目标或完成某项任务而提前做好详细的安排和准备。
>
> * It's important to lay plans before starting a new project. 在开始一个新项目之前，制定计划是非常重要的。
>
>> You've the look of someone in need of a task.
>>
>
>> Ensuring a safe flight path is of the utmost importance.
>>
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">A slip of</b> parchment documenting plans for an airship test flight.
>>
>
> a slip of 一张
>
>> And it leaves us pressed for time...
>>
>
>> But delaying this shipment would have grave repercussions.
>>
>
>> If this test is to be conducted <b class="text-red-500">in a timely manner</b>, they will have to be quick about the repairs.
>>
>
> in a timely manner  及时地：在适当的时间内，不拖延地完成某事。
>
> * Please submit your report in a timely manner. 请及时提交你的报告。
>
>> The <b class="text-red-500">advent</b> of the airship is truly a wonderful thing, but not without its <b class="text-red-500">hindrances</b>, as you can see.
>>
>
> advent   .v. 出现，到来，问世；
>
> hindrance  .n. 造成妨碍的人（或事物）；阻碍，妨碍

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Cliaux is preparing a test flight for an airship currently under repair, and needs her plan delivered right away. Take the flight plan to Jannequinard at the Athenaeum Astrologicum.

You deliver the flight plan to Jannequinard. Seeing the dates listed for the test flight leaves him gravely concerned, as he predicts significant dragon activity at that time. Rather than delaying the shipment, he suggests hastening repairs on the airship. Speak with Fromelaut at the Skysteel Manufactory and see what can be done about the repairs.

You relay Jannequinard's suggestion to rush repairs on the airship, leaving Fromelaut taken aback. Though he is hesitant to do so, he agrees to do whatever is necessary to make repairs as quickly as possible. Report to Cliaux and tell her it will be ready on the appointed day.

Cliaux thanks you for your help in setting her plans into motion. She tells you that conflicts with the Dravanian Horde make even simple airship deliveries a trying task, but the cooperation of the astrologians and machinists, under the guidance of the Holy See, has ensured safe passage through the skies of Ishgard.
</div>

>> You relay Jannequinard's suggestion to rush repairs on the airship, leaving Fromelaut <b class="text-red-500">taken aback</b>.
>>
>
> take aback  .v. 使吃惊；惊吓
>
>> Cliaux thanks you for your help in setting her plans into motion.
>>
>
>> She tells you that conflicts with the Dravanian Horde make even simple airship deliveries <b class="text-red-500">a trying task</b>, but the cooperation of the astrologians and machinists, under the guidance of the Holy See, has ensured safe passage through the skies of Ishgard.
>>
>
> trying 有“令人厌烦的，难对付的”的意思

## Landing a Stable Job

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Mathye is looking for an adventurer who is not afraid of a little hard work.

Mathye

-- What's this? Looking for a bit of work, are we? You don't look to be one strapped for coin, but I never turn away anyone looking to make an honest gil. Would you mind taking a sack of chocobo fodder down to the Holy Stables in Foundation? The stable master Cevilia is expecting a delivery. She paid me up front, but fear not. That was merely for the fodder. There's still a delivery charge, and you're welcome to it if you take the fodder down there for me.

-- I wouldn't dream of denying willing volunteers the chance to make a few gil. Any payment offered upon delivery is yours to keep.

Chobobo Fodder (Item Description)

-- A mixture of chopped fresh greens and hay for delivery to the Holy Stables.

Cevilia

-- Welcome to the Holy Stables. What can I do for you? Oh, the fodder! Splendid. The chocobos are in for a treat. We specialize in the breeding and training of cavalry chocobos, so they must have nothing but the very best. They're put through an admittedly harsh training regimen, and only a chocobo of the finest stock can endure it. That's why my assistant and I─Wait a second. Where is my assistant? <sigh> No doubt he's run off to the Lightfeather Proving Grounds again. Would you be a dear and go get him for me? And tell him to expect chocobo fodder for supper if he doesn't hurry.

-- I'd wager a month of his pay he's spectating at the Lightfeather Proving Grounds. Could you call him back here? We have work to do.

Proving Grounds Guard

-- Looking for who? Oh, the stableman. He went inside not too long ago.

Stableman

-- Hello there. Come for a few matches as well, I take it? Ah, have you ever seen anything so exhilarating? There is nothing in this world more majestic than the chocobo. Spirited and resilient, with plumage kissed by the golden sun─they are my passion, and I long to someday breed the perfect chocobo. Fortunately, I work at the Holy Stables, or I'd never have the opportunity.

-- Cevilia's looking for me!? Bugger me with a hayfork, the fodder must've arrived! The matches will have to wait. Thanks for the tip, friend!
</div>

>> You don't look to be one <b class="text-red-500">strapped for</b> coin, but I never <b class="text-red-500">turn away</b> anyone looking to make an honest gil.
>>
>
> strapped for  缺乏，短缺：形容某种资源或物品不足，无法满足需求。
>
> * I'm strapped for cash this month. 这个月我手头很紧。
>
> turn away 驱逐或拒绝；拒绝接纳或接受
>
>> Would you mind taking a sack of chocobo <b class="text-red-500">fodder</b> down to the Holy Stables in Foundation?
>>
>
> fodder  .n. 饲料；素材
>
>> A mixture of chopped fresh greens and <b class="text-red-500">hay</b> for delivery to the Holy Stables.
>>
>
> hay 干草
>
>> We <b class="text-red-500">specialize</b> in the breeding and training of <b class="text-red-500">cavalry</b> chocobos, so they must have nothing but the very best.
>>
>
> specialize  .v. 专门研究（或从事），专攻；专营；
>
> cavalry  .n. 骑兵；装甲兵；装甲部队
>
> have nothing but the very best 就是“只有最好的”的意思。
>
>> They're <b class="text-red-500">put through</b> an <b class="text-red-500">admittedly</b> harsh training <b class="text-red-500">regimen</b>, and only a chocobo of the finest stock can endure it.
>>
>
> put through  完成；实施
>
> * The government put through a series of reforms to improve the economy. 政府实施了一系列改革以改善经济。
>
> admittedly  .adv. 诚然，不可否认地
>
> regimen  .n. <正式>生活规则，养生之道，疗程；<古>政治制度，政体
>
>> And tell him to expect chocobo fodder for supper if he doesn't hurry.
>>
>
> （就是说，如果他不快点的话，就等着吃饲料吧）
>
>> Ah, have you ever seen anything so <b class="text-red-500">exhilarating</b>?
>>
>
> exhilarate  .v. 使高兴，使振奋；使愉快
>
>> There is nothing in this world more <b class="text-red-500">majestic</b> than the chocobo.
>>
>
> majestic  .adj. 雄伟的，壮丽的，威严的
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">Spirited</b> and <b class="text-red-500">resilient</b>, with <b class="text-red-500">plumage</b> kissed by the golden sun─they are my passion, and I long to someday breed the perfect chocobo.
>>
>
> Spirited  .adj. 精神饱满的，热情洋溢的；意志坚定的；有某种特定性格（或人生观、情绪）的；激烈的
>
> resilient  .adj.（人或动物）对困境有承受力的，有复原力的；（物质或物体）有弹性的，有回弹力的
>
> plumage  .n. 鸟类羽毛；翅膀
>
>> Bugger me with a hayfork, the fodder must've arrived! The matches will have to wait.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Cevilia

-- He practically tripped over himself running in here not long ago. Thank you for finding him. <sigh> He'll have to buckle down if he's serious about becoming a realm-renowned breeder. Though he's off to a good start having come here. Ishgard is famous for raising chocobos, you know. They've always been the steed of choice on the battlefield. The proving grounds, where you found my starry-eyed assistant, ensure they get plenty of practice. Well, I say it's practice, but it also makes a good show for the folks spectating, as well. You should see for yourself sometime. Nothing like feathers flying from two chocobos fluttering, almost dancing, back and forth in the arena. You'll quickly come to understand why they call it the Lightfeather Proving Grounds. And as long as this stable stands, you can be sure our chocobos will be there. I'll confess the weather has been more than unkind to our chocobo chicks, but we have traditions and a reputation to uphold!
</div>

>> He <b class="text-red-500">practically</b> <b class="text-red-500">tripped over</b> himself running in here not long ago.
>>
>
> practically  .adv. 几乎，差不多；实事求是地，实际地
>
> trip over  绊倒或摔倒：因为脚碰到某人或某物而绊倒或摔倒，差点摔倒。
>
> * Be careful not to trip over the toys on the floor. 小心不要绊倒地上的玩具。
>
>> He'll have to <b class="text-red-500">buckle down</b> if he's serious about becoming a realm-renowned breeder.
>>
>
> buckle down  开始努力工作
>
> * I need to buckle down and finish this project by the deadline. 我需要开始努力工作，按照截止日期完成这个项目。
>
>> Though he's off to a good start having come here.
>>
>
>> They've always been the <b class="text-red-500">steed</b> of choice on the battlefield.
>>
>
> steed  .n. 战马，骏马；马
>
>> The proving grounds, where you found my <b class="text-red-500">starry-eyed</b> assistant, ensure they get plenty of practice. 
>>
>
> starry-eyed   .adj. 过分乐观的；幻想的
>
>> Well, I say it's practice, but it also makes a good show for the folks spectating, as well.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Mathye can sense you are eager to add a few coins to your purse and makes you an offer. He needs a sack of chocobo fodder delivered to the Holy Stables in Foundation. Although he was paid up front, there is an additional charge to be paid upon receiving the fodder. He says you are welcome to whatever money they offer if you deliver the fodder for him. Pick up the sack of chocobo fodder for delivery.

You pick up the sack of chocobo fodder. Deliver the sack of chocobo fodder to the Holy Stables in Foundation.

You deliver the fodder to a most gracious stable master. She tells you of their work breeding cavalry chocobos. However, when she turns to introduce her assistant, he is nowhere to be found. She suspects he has gone to see the chocobos battle at the Lightfeather Proving Grounds and asks you to call him back to the stables. Head to the Lightfeather Proving Grounds and search for the stable master's assistant.

You find Cevilia's assistant at the proving grounds, eagerly awaiting the next match to begin. He speaks to you about his passion for chocobos and he soon reveals he works at the Holy Stables. After telling him that Cevilia is searching for him, he suddenly turns pale and runs out of the proving grounds. Report back to Cevilia and ensure the stableman has returned to work.

You return to the Holy Stables, and Cevilia subsequently informs you that the stableman came back not long ago. She goes on to tell you how Ishgard is famous for its chocobos, encouraging you to visit the Lightfeather Proving Grounds to see her birds in action. So long as the realm has need of finely bred chocobos, Cevilia seems determined to supply them.
</div>

>> Mathye can sense you are eager to add a few coins to your purse and makes you an offer.
>>
>
>> Although he was paid up front, there is an additional charge to be paid upon receiving the fodder.
>>
>
>> You deliver the fodder to a most <b class="text-red-500">gracious</b> stable master.
>>
>
> gracious  .adj. 有礼貌的，和蔼的；豪华舒适的，富足安逸的；
>
>> After telling him that Cevilia is searching for him, he suddenly <b class="text-red-500">turns pale</b> and runs out of the proving grounds.
>>
>
> turn pale 脸色变白：因惊吓、害怕、生病等原因，脸色变得苍白无血色。

## Stolen Goods

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Auriaune is lost in thought.

Auriaune

-- I look worried, you say? Nothing of the sort. I was simply thinking about something─the rebuilding of Falcon's Nest, in fact. The damage from the Calamity─and the freezing winds it brought with it─was tremendous. Even the rats fled, driven out by the cold. With the impostor Guillaime dealt with, we can move forward with the rebuilding of the fortifications. I'm truly delighted─and proud─to be a part of it. But it's no simple task. The heretic's various supporters are obviously still a major concern. And the High Houses still have their squabbles and their disputes with the citizenry. Frankly, there's no end to the difficulties we face. Just yesterday, some valuable supplies went missing─stolen from within this very fortress, right beneath our noses! We've no leads, and we don't have the resources to scour the highlands looking for these supplies. But if you happen to see a group of suspicious-looking fellows carrying a large crate with them, it may well be our stolen goods. Please recover them for us.

-- Have you seen any suspicious people carrying a crate of stolen Ishgardian supplies?

Stolen Supplies (Item Description)

-- Foodstuffs, medicines, and tools intended for use in Falcon's Nest.

Auriaune

-- Have you found the stolen supplies?

-- Yes, yes! This is the very crate that was stolen. This looks very much like the heretics' handiwork. ...But there's something in here that shouldn't be. A feather ornament? Whatever could it mean...? It looks like a type of ornament that was popular in Falcon's Nest before the Calamity. This sort of thing is of no use to us here─a mere decorative trinket. But there is someone who might be interested in it. There's a humorless old man named Sigan who collects antiques from the small mountain village that used to be here at Falcon's Nest. I'm sure he'd love to take a look at something like this. Do you think you could do me a favor and take it to him?

-- Have you taken that ornament to Sigan yet?
</div>

>> I look worried, you say? <b class="text-red-500">Nothing of the sort</b>.
>>
>
> Nothing of the sort  不是那样的：用于反驳某事或否认某事。
>
> * He claimed that I stole his wallet, but I told him it was nothing of the sort. 他声称我偷了他的钱包，但我告诉他完全不是那样的。
>
>> With the impostor Guillaime dealt with, we can move forward with the rebuilding of the fortifications.
>>
>
> impostor  .n. 骗子；冒充者
>
>> And the High Houses still have their <b class="text-red-500">squabbles</b> and their disputes with the citizenry.
>>
>
> squabble  .n. 争吵，口角
>
> citizenry  .n.  市民；公民
>
>> Just yesterday, some valuable supplies went missing─stolen from within this very <b class="text-red-500">fortress</b>, right beneath our noses!
>>
>
> fortress  .n. 堡垒；要塞
>
>> we don't have the resources to <b class="text-red-500">scour</b> the highlands looking for these supplies.
>>
>
> scour  .v. 擦亮，洗涤；冲洗，清除
>
>> A feather <b class="text-red-500">ornament</b>? Whatever could it mean...?
>>
>
> ornament  .n. 装饰品，点缀品；<正式>装饰，摆设；<正式>首饰，饰物；
>
>> This sort of thing is of no use to us here─a mere decorative <b class="text-red-500">trinket</b>.
>>
>
> trinket   .n. 小装饰品；不值钱的小玩意儿
>
>> There's a <b class="text-red-500">humorless</b> old man named Sigan who collects <b class="text-red-500">antiques</b> from the small mountain village that used to be here at Falcon's Nest.
>>
>
> humorless  .adj. 非常严肃的；缺少幽默感的
>
> antiques  .n. 古玩

<div class="border-4 p-6">
White Falcon Charm (Item Description)

-- A simple pendant crafted from a thin leather strap and a single white highland falcon feather.

Sigan

-- Hm? Did you want something? Ah, you used to see these all the time before the Calamity─back before Falcon's Nest ended up looking like this. This brings back some memories. You say it was left with supplies stolen by the heretics? ...Well, thank you, in any case.
</div>

>> A simple <b class="text-red-500">pendant</b> crafted from a thin <b class="text-red-500">leather strap</b> and a single white highland falcon feather.
>>
>
> pendant  .adj. 下垂的  .n. 垂饰，坠饰；
>
> leather strap 皮带：由皮革制成的带状物，通常用于系扣或固定物品。

<div class="border-4 p-6">
A large amount of supplies were recently stolen from Falcon's Nest. Auriaune asks you to be on the lookout for a group of suspicious characters moving a large crate of Ishgardian supplies in the Coerthas area.

You have found the thieves and dealt with them. Return the stolen crate to Auriaune at Falcon's Nest.

Auriaune thanks you for recovering the stolen goods. She also finds something curious within the crate: a feather ornament. She is able to identify it as being from the Sixth Astral Era, but can tell no more than that. She asks you to take it to Sigan, a local man who collects relics from that period.

Sigan thanks you for the ornament. He points out that they were a common sight in Falcon's Nest─before the Calamity, that is.
</div>

>> Auriaune asks you to be <b class="text-red-500">on the lookout</b> for a group of suspicious characters moving a large crate of Ishgardian supplies in the Coerthas area.
>>
>
> on the lookout  持续警觉，专注于寻找某物或某人
>
> * I'm always on the lookout for new opportunities. 我一直在寻找新的机会。

## Memories in the Snow

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Sigan is reminiscing about the past.

Sigan

-- That feather you gave me─I'd not seen one of those in a long, long time. It brought back memories... The village here grew, years ago, around the barracks housing the Ishgardian scouting forces. It may have been a small village, but it had a long and rich history. Being so close to the Dravanian border, it had its fair share of legend and wisdom passed down from generation to generation. But after the Calamity─and the freezing winds it brought─the whole village was lost to the ice. Thanks to House Dzemael, the fortress's reconstruction is progressing rapidly. But the village─and all the belongings left behind in the Calamity's aftermath─still lies deep beneath the snow. I'd wager that feather ornament you found was previously dug up around here. I seek out and collect relics from before the Calamity. Everyone is so focused on rebuilding, nobody seems to care but one jot for the past. I suppose I ought to get back out there and sift through those snowdrifts. If you find anything out there yourself, let me know.

-- If you find something out there in the snow─something from before the Calamity─let me know.

Sixth Astral Era Tool (Item Description)

-- 	A farming instrument used in the Sixth Astral Era by residents of Falcon's Nest.

Sigan

-- You actually found something?

-- Maybe you really know how I feel. Maybe you're just helping an old man out of pity. Whichever it is, I still owe you my thanks. I've never been happier than when they first started talking about rebuilding Falcon's Nest. I thought I'd finally have the old village back. Of course, the Holy See wasn't interested in the village at all. They just wanted their fortress. And now it's bigger and grander than ever before. The Falcon's Nest I knew─that small village I grew up in─it's been lying under all this snow ever since the Calamity. All the villagers who could never return home─they've all had to move to the capital... It's for them that I'm still digging through all this snow, trying to recover that lost history.
</div>

>> Sigan is <b class="text-red-500">reminiscing</b> about the past.
>>
>
> reminisce  .v. 回忆
>
>> The village here grew, years ago, around the <b class="text-red-500">barracks</b> housing the Ishgardian scouting forces.
>>
>
> barrack  .n. 营房；兵舍
>
>> Everyone is so focused on rebuilding, nobody seems to care but one <b class="text-red-500">jot</b> for the past.
>>
>
> jot  .n. 少量；稍许
>
>> I suppose I ought to get back out there and <b class="text-red-500">sift through</b> those <b class="text-red-500">snowdrifts</b>.
>>
>
> sift through  仔细查看一组物品或信息收集，以找到某些东西
>
> * I need to sift through these resumes to find the best candidate for the job. 我需要仔细查看这些简历，找到最适合这份工作的候选人。
>
> snowdrift  .n. 随风飘飞的雪；被风刮在一起的雪堆
>
>> Maybe you're just helping an old man <b class="text-red-500">out of pity</b>.
>>
>
> out of pity  出于同情：因为同情而做某事或对某人表示同情。
>
> * She gave him some money out of pity.  她出于同情给了他一些钱。

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Sigan tells you that he collects antiques from the now-buried village at Falcon's Nest from the Sixth Astral Era. He explains that the villagers' belongings are all buried deep beneath the snowdrifts. He asks you to keep a keen eye out for any relics buried in the snow.

You have found several artifacts from the Sixth Astral Era. Return them to Sigan.

Sigan graciously accepts your finds. The Holy See's restoration of Falcon's Nest has completely changed the area. The old village he once called home has been left beneath the snow, while the fortress grows taller and more imposing than ever before.
</div>

>> He asks you to <b class="text-red-500">keep a keen eye</b> <b class="text-red-500">out for</b> any relics buried in the snow.
>>
>
> keep a keen eye 保持警觉：保持高度警觉，密切关注周围的情况。
>
> out for  决心要得到某物或实现某个目标
>
> * She was out for a promotion and worked hard for it. 她决心要得到晋升，为此努力工作。
>
>> The old village he once called home has been left beneath the snow, while the fortress grows taller and more <b class="text-red-500">imposing</b> than ever before.
>>
>
> imposing  .adj. 壮观的，仪表堂堂的

## A Mystery Illness

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Redwald is looking for someone to carry out an investigation.

Redwald

-- Greetings, Mistress Kali. Thank you again for your earlier help. As it happens, I was hoping to enlist your aid once more. Several of the garrison here have fallen suddenly ill, and with no obvious cause. If it is but a simple cold, then so be it...but I have a feeling there's something more sinister going on. I want to mount an investigation, but I simply do not have the men. If you could gather information from the troops manning the fort, it would be of tremendous assistance.

-- Several troops here have fallen ill suddenly, and I suspect foul play. Please gather reports from the soldiers here, such that we may rule out malevolent causes.

Tourcenet

-- A mysterious disease? Well, my comrade-in-arms was complaining of stomach pains after dinner last night, but I merely assumed that the meal disagreed with him.

-- My colleague fell ill with stomach pains after dinner last night. I assumed that the meal disagreed with him. I ate the same food, and I seem to be doing all right.

Emerussel

-- You're looking into the soldiers that fell sick of late? As it happens, my brother has been stuck in bed since last night. It's a pity─it was the first time in months that we've been able to share a meal together.

-- My brother's been sick in bed since last night. It's a pity─it was the first time in months that we've been able to share a meal together.

Soubinie

-- You want to know about that sickness that's been going around lately? Well, my colleague's been bedridden since dinner last night─and he won't stop moaning about it! I'll admit the soup was pretty flavorless, but he could stand to be a little less dramatic about it.

-- I'd wager my colleague is still in bed, moaning and complaining. I had the soup too, and I can tell you, it really wasn't that bad...
</div>

>> <b class="text-red-500">As it happens</b>, I was hoping to enlist your aid once more.
>>
>
> as it happens  恰巧，碰巧：用于介绍某些偶然发生的真实情况。
>
> * As it happens, I have an extra ticket to the concert.  恰巧我有一张多余的音乐会门票。
>
>> I have a feeling there's something more <b class="text-red-500">sinister</b> going on.
>>
>
> sinister  .adj. 邪恶的，不祥的；
>
>> I want to mount an investigation, but I simply do not have the men.
>>
>
>> If you could gather information from the troops <b class="text-red-500">manning the fort</b>, it would be of tremendous assistance.
>>
>
> fort  .n. 堡垒，要塞；
>
> man  .v. 在……岗位上工作，操纵（机器等），配备（人员）
>
>> Several troops here have fallen ill suddenly, and I suspect foul play.
>>
>
>> Please gather reports from the soldiers here, such that we may <b class="text-red-500">rule out</b> <b class="text-red-500">malevolent</b> causes.
>>
>
> rule out  排除、消除或阻止某事发生
>
> malevolent  .adj. 恶毒的；有恶意的；坏心肠的
>
>> Well, my comrade-in-arms was complaining of stomach pains after dinner last night, but I merely assumed that the meal disagreed with him.
>>
>
>> As it happens, my brother has been stuck in bed since last night.
>>
>
>> My brother's been sick in bed since last night.
>>
>
>> Well, my colleague's been <b class="text-red-500">bedridden</b> since dinner last night─and he won't stop <b class="text-red-500">moaning</b> about it!
>>
>
> bedridden .adj. 卧床不起的
>
> moan  .v. 呻吟，呜咽；<非正式>抱怨，发牢骚；（风）发出萧萧声； <文>悲叹，哀悼
>
>> I'll admit the soup was pretty flavorless, but he could stand to be a little less <b class="text-red-500">dramatic</b> about it.
>>
>
> dramatic  .adj. 巨大而突然的，急剧的；激动人心的，引人注目的，给人深刻印象的；有关戏剧的，戏剧表演的；夸张的

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Redwald

-- What news have you of this mysterious illness, Mistress Kali?

-- I see. So each person that fell sick did so after eating dinner... Every meal served here at Falcon's Nest is prepared─or at least overseen─by Noirterel, the head chef. I find it hard to believe he would let something this severe go undetected, but we cannot ignore the facts. Pray ask Noirterel what he has to say about this. Find out whatever you can. We must determine what is behind this.

-- Have you spoken with Noirterel yet? We need to find out what has been making these soldiers fall ill.

Noirterel

-- Yes? Do you want something? Just what're you trying to imply!? I take my work very seriously. And I certainly wouldn't do anything to breach the trust of the troops I'm responsible for feeding. I'll admit some folk don't care for my traditional Coerthan cooking, but the ingredients are of the highest quality─I check them every morning! The only thing I can't vouch for is the wine. I don't drink─never touch the stuff. Hmmm... Perhaps the wine is the problem. We'll need to check the bottles to be sure, but I've already returned them to the sutler. Quickly go and get them back before he leaves, he should still be at the airship landing.

-- We need to get those wine bottles back from the sutler. The airship landing is to the south of the fort─he should still be there.

Spirited Sutler

-- Hm? Lookin' for wine bottles? The ones from last night'll be around here somewhere. Any older than that and they'll have already been collected.

-- Last night's bottles are over there somewhere. What do you want with empty bottles, anyway?

Bottle-filled Crate (Item Description)

-- Enough wine was stored in this box to render a whole company of knights merry, or a single knight blind.

Noirterel

-- Do you have the bottles?

-- Marvelous. Let's see if anything smells out of the ordinary... <sniff> <sniff> Hm... Something is definitely amiss. Only a trained nose─like that of an expert chef─would be able to pick it out, but this wine has been tampered with. I suggest you take this bottle to Redwald. I'm all but certain that last night's wine is behind the sick soldiers.

-- Take that wine bottle to Redwald. No doubt last night's wine is what made all those soldiers sick.

Strange-smelling Bottle (Item Description)

-- One whiff is all that is needed to realize something is slightly off-kilter with this bottle's contents.

Redwald

-- Ah, you have returned. Was Noirterel able to shed any light on the situation?

-- What? He thinks the wine caused the sickness? Seven hells, it must have been poisoned! You have my thanks, Mistress Kali. Now that we know the cause of this illness, there is only one thing left to do...
</div>

>> Just what're you trying to imply!? I take my work very seriously.
>>
>
>> The only thing I can't vouch for is the wine. I don't drink─never touch the stuff.
>>
>
>> We'll need to check the bottles to be sure, but I've already returned them to the <b class="text-red-500">sutler</b>.
>>
>
> sutler .n. 军中小贩
>
>> Enough wine was stored in this box to render a whole company of knights <b class="text-red-500">merry</b>, or a single knight blind.
>>
>
> merry  .adj. <旧>愉快的，高兴的；<旧>令人愉快的；<英，非正式>微醉的
>
>> Let's see if anything smells out of the ordinary...
>>
>
>> Only a trained nose─like that of an expert chef─would be able to pick it out, but this wine has <b class="text-red-500">been tampered with</b>.
>>
>
> tamper  .v. 做手脚，破坏
>
>> One whiff is all that is needed to realize something is slightly <b class="text-red-500">off-kilter</b> with this bottle's contents.
>>
>
> （只要闻一闻就能意识到这瓶酒的味道有点不太对劲。）
>
> off-kilter  .adj. 奇异的；疯狂的
>
>> Was Noirterel able to shed any light on the situation?
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Redwald informs you that a mysterious sickness has suddenly taken hold of a great many men in the Falcon's Nest garrison. Suspecting foul play, but lacking the manpower to mount a full investigation, he has turned to you for help. Speak to troops in the fortress and see what you can find out.

You have gathered information from several soldiers in the area: it seems that everyone who fell sick did so shortly after eating dinner. Return to Redwald and report on what you have discovered.

All meals go past the head chef, Noirterel. Speak with him and find out what he knows about this issue.

Noirterel personally checks the quality and freshness of all ingredients used in meals served to the troops. However, he does not drink and so cannot vouch for the wine served with dinner. Suspecting the wine to be at fault, he asks you to recover the empty wine bottles from the sutler at the airship landing so that they can be checked for traces of contaminants.

The sutler tells you that the bottles should still be on the airship landing somewhere, but offers no further assistance.

You have found the empty bottles. Take them back to Noirterel.

Noirterel confirms his suspicions. The bottles carry a strange, barely detectable odor─one that definitely shouldn't be there. Take one of the bottles to Redwald and inform him of the situation.

Redwald is shocked to discover that someone would poison the wine, but glad to have found the cause for the illness striking his soldiers. He thanks you for your assistance and hints at his intention to see this investigation through to its conclusion.
</div>

>> Redwald informs you that a mysterious sickness has suddenly taken hold of a great many men in the Falcon's Nest garrison.
>>
>
>> Suspecting foul play, but lacking the manpower to mount a full investigation, he has turned to you for help.
>>
>
>> However, he does not drink and so cannot <b class="text-red-500">vouch for</b> the wine served with dinner.
>>
>
> vouch for  保证，担保，证明（某人或某事物的真实性、诚实性或好处）
>
> * I can personally vouch for his integrity and trustworthiness.  我可以亲自保证他的正直和可靠性。
>
>> Suspecting the wine to be at fault, he asks you to recover the empty wine bottles from the sutler at the airship landing so that they can be checked for traces of <b class="text-red-500">contaminants</b>.
>>
>
> contaminant   .n. 污染物；致污物
>
>> The sutler tells you that the bottles should still be on the airship landing somewhere, but offers no further assistance.
>>
>
>> The bottles carry a strange, barely detectable odor─one that definitely shouldn't be there.
>>
>
> barely  .adv. 勉强才能；几乎不，几乎没有；刚刚；仅仅，只有；贫乏地，光秃秃；<古>公开地，不加掩饰地
>
>> He thanks you for your assistance and hints at his intention to see this investigation through to its conclusion.
>>
>
> hints at 暗示；对别人暗示……

## Bad Wine

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Redwald wants to make the next move in his investigation..

Redwald

-- We may have confirmed that poison was causing the illness that struck the fort, but there's still one thing left to do─find those responsible for this reprehensible crime and bring them to justice. Auriaune is in charge of logistics here. I suspect that if you show her this bottle, she should be able to tell you where it came from.

-- Show that bottle to Auriaune. She should be able to find out where it came from.

Auriaune

-- Hello there. Is there something I can help you with?

-- What? The wine that was in this bottle was the cause of the sickness plaguing the fortress!? Our records should show where this came from, who handled it, and─wait! The crate of supplies that you recovered for me previously─the one that had been stolen by heretics─it was full of wine. I'm almost certain that this bottle was in that crate. I'd wager that those heretics poisoned the wine, counting on us recovering it. As a matter of fact, I've been looking into that case lately. It seems that the culprits had accomplices. They've been seen several times at Camp Riversmeet lately. I wouldn't be surprised if they're still looking for another opportunity to poison us. See if you can't press them for any information. Report to Redwald with anything you're able to find out.

-- Try questioning the heretics' accomplices at Camp Riversmeet. Report back to Redwald with whatever you find out.

Suspicious Coerthan

-- Ahah! So you found out about the poison and came here looking for answers? Well, give up! The poison is made from dragon venom. There is no antidote. Everyone who drank it will die...and so will you!

Redwald

-- Greetings, Mistress Kali. Auriaune has already apprised me of the situation. She tells me you might have information regarding the poisonings? 

-- I see. So it was the heretics after all. And poison made from dragon venom? This is very bad indeed. We will need to find an antidote as quickly as possible...
</div>

>> find those responsible for this <b class="text-red-500">reprehensible</b> crime and bring them to justice.
>>
>
> reprehensible .adj. 应斥责的；应该谴责的
>
>> Auriaune is in charge of <b class="text-red-500">logistics</b> here.
>>
>
> logistic .adj. 后勤上的，安排协调方面的
>
>> It seems that the culprits had <b class="text-red-500">accomplices</b>.
>>
>
> accomplice  .n. 同谋，帮凶
>
>> See if you can't press them for any information.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Redwald wants you to go to Auriaune and show her the bottle that contained the poisoned wine. She is in charge of logistics at Falcon's Nest and should be able to determine who would have had chance to poison the wine.

Auriaune realizes that the poisoned wine was in the crate of stolen supplies that you previously recovered for her. She posits that the thieves poisoned the wine under the assumption that the crate would be recovered. It has since come to light that these men were not working alone. They had accomplices who have been sighted several times at Camp Riversmeet. Go there, find these heretics, and question them.

The heretics attack you, but not before gloating that the poison they used was made from dragon venom. There is no known antidote. Report to Redwald with this grim news.

Redwald, having been informed of the situation by Auriaune, was ready and waiting for your report. He is not surprised to hear of the heretics' involvement and is resolved to finding an antidote to the poison before it is too late.
</div>

>> She <b class="text-red-500">posits</b> that the thieves poisoned the wine under the assumption that the crate would be recovered.
>>
>
> posit  .v. <正式>假设，认定；建立在（假说）上（posit sth. on）；安置，放置
>
>> It has since come to light that these men were not working alone.
>>
>
>> The heretics attack you, but not before <b class="text-red-500">gloating</b> that the poison they used was made from dragon venom.
>>
>
> gloat  .v. 幸灾乐祸；心满意足地注视
>
>> There is no known antidote. Report to Redwald with this <b class="text-red-500">grim</b> news.
>>
>
> grim  .adj. 严肃的，坚定的；令人不快的，令人沮丧的；阴森的，凄凉的；

## Ancient Wisdom

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Redwald is eager to continue his investigation.

Redwald

-- There is a breed of dragon that breathes deadly poisonous breath. If you were to make poison by concentrating the toxic component of their breath, it would be almost impossible to formulate an antidote. We have precious little information, Mistress Kali. Thus I had hoped you might assist us once more. This report describes the symptoms of the poisoned soldiers. Please show it to anyone you think might be able to assist in the formulation of an antidote. I suggest starting with our chef, Noirterel.

-- Show that report to anyone you think could help formulate an antidote to the poison affecting our soldiers. Try starting with Noirterel─Falcon's Nest's chef.

Ser Redwald's Report (Item Description)

-- Details on the symptoms exhibited by several poisoned soldiers.

Noirterel

-- Oh, you're that lass from before. Have you caught the people who poisoned that wine yet?

-- I see. So the poison was most likely made from concentrated dragon venom? I don't know a great deal about venomous dragons, but I do remember reading something about poison-breathing dragons in a book of old from before the Calamity. Sadly, I can't remember the specifics. Given how old the book was, perhaps you might be able to find out more from someone knowledgeable about the Sixth Astral Era.

-- I suggest you try showing that document to someone who knows more about the Sixth Astral Era. They might be able to tell you something useful.

Sigan

-- Hm? What do you want?

-- Poison made from concentrated dragon venom? Ah, yes. There was a story passed down through the generations in the old village of Falcon's Nest about dragons that breathe poison.

-- “Be ye ware the beast with poison breath, whose claws and breath bring naught but certain death. The ancient dragon's noxious mist is born from eating of the poisoned viper's thorn.”

-- Thorny viper is a type of toxic brambleweed; this toxin is said to be the source of the dragons' poisonous breath. If we find a creature immune to the thorny viper, we should be able to study this immunity to develop an antidote to the dragons' poison. There's a beast that lives near Gorgagne Mills: the blackblood zu. They say it feeds primarily on the thorny viper. Its blood may hold the key to saving the afflicted soldiers. Take these provisions, and travel to Gorgagne Mills.

-- This is a herb that, when burned, should attract the zu. When you reach the mill, use this ember and burn the herbs. The scent should draw the beast out of hiding. Slay it and recover its blood.

-- Go to Gorgagne Mills and burn the herbs. The scent should draw the zu out of hiding. Slay it and recover its blood.

Tiny Ember (Item)

-- A red-hot piece of smoldering wood. It must be blown on periodically to ensure it doesn't flicker out.

Fragrant Herbs (Item) 

-- Sigan has entrusted you with these herbs for reasons better documented in your journal than here.
</div>

>> There is a breed of dragon that breathes deadly poisonous breath.
>>
>
>> I do remember reading something about poison-breathing dragons in a book of old from before the Calamity. Sadly, I can't remember the specifics.
>>
>
>> There was a story passed down through the generations in the old village of Falcon's Nest about dragons that breathe poison.
>>
>
> pass down 传承：将某物或某种信息从一代人传递给下一代人，通常是通过口头或书面方式。
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">Thorny</b> <b class="text-red-500">viper</b> is a type of toxic <b class="text-red-500">brambleweed</b>
>>
>
> thorny .adj. 多刺的
>
> viper  .n. 毒蛇
>
> brambleweed （bramble weed就是杂草）
>
>> Its blood may hold the key to saving the <b class="text-red-500">afflicted</b> soldiers.
>>
>
> afflict  .v. 折磨，使痛苦；
>
>> A red-hot piece of smoldering wood. It must be blown on periodically to ensure it doesn't <b class="text-red-500">flicker out</b>.
>>
>
> flicker out   逐渐熄灭：指火焰或光线逐渐变弱并最终熄灭。

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Zu Blood

-- Zu living in the far reaches of Eorzea are known to consume a highly toxic variety of brambleweed known as “thorny viper.” The plant's toxin collects in the cloudkin's blood, making zu meat almost as deadly as the zu itself.

Sigan

-- Have you retrieved the zu's blood?

-- Hmmm... Yes, this should do nicely. An antidote may well be possible after all.

Redwald

-- Mistress Kali, I spied you down here and hurried down, hoping you could inform me of the status of your investigations. Are we any closer to a cure?

Sigan

-- Well if it isn't the commander of the reconstruction program. Hmph. This young lass here cares about our folklore and culture. She helped recover relics from the buried village of Falcon's Nest! In return, I passed on an ancient legend that was likewise passed down to me by my ancestors. The zu blood this young lady gathered can be used to create an antidote. Take it to your brightest alchemists and have them formulate the cure. If you move quickly, you can still save those poisoned soldiers.

Redwald

-- Good grief. To think that those old legends could bear the solution to a problem like this. I shall call for the Holy See's best alchemists immediately. Master Sigan... We have been so focused on moving forward that we have lost sight of where we have come from. To be frank, I thought you were but a fool who could not let go of the past. ...But in light of these events, I have been forced to reconsider. The culture and traditions of Falcon's Nest hold great value. They are truly priceless. If it pleases, perhaps you might be so kind as to lend us your assistance in an excavation of the village? I can only offer my most sincere apologies for how little we have done to make you feel welcome until now.

Sigan

-- As you yourself said, Redwald, I can't let go of the past. But I understand that everything you've done, you've done to protect the people of Ishgard. I can't help but feel that there are issues more deserving of your resources than an archaeological dig.

Redwald

-- Very well. How might this suit you, then: If you ever happen to pass by the fortress of Falcon's Nest─whenever you might happen to stop by our halls─we shall be sure to have a hot bowl of soup waiting for you. In exchange, I ask only that you pass on the legends and stories of the old village of Falcon's Nest, such that we may learn from your knowledge and wisdom. Does that strike you as a better arrangement?

Sigan

-- Hmph. A nice suggestion, I suppose. But I can't stand the taste of your Ishgardian cooking. Your cooks are far too heavy-handed with the salt and spice.

Redwald

-- If that is your only objection, then you need not worry. Our head chef is a Coerthan man. We troops are always complaining about his Coerthan-style cooking─that his soup is too thin and bland. I suspect it may suit you perfectly.

Sigan

-- Hm. A Coerthan chef, you say? I may enjoy the food after all.

Redwald

-- It may be true that Falcon's Nest is no longer a small village, but we are still home to the same people. We still have a responsibility to carry this culture and history on into the future. Though the village itself may be lost to time and snow, we have the opportunity to find a new path to lead these people to peace and prosperity. Carving that path is my charge. Come, let me introduce you to our chef. We can enjoy a bowl of thin Coerthan soup together.
</div>

>> I spied you down here and <b class="text-red-500">hurried down</b>, hoping you could inform me of the status of your investigations.
>>
>
> hurry down  赶快下来：迅速下来或下降。
>
> * I need you to hurry down to the office for an urgent meeting. 我需要你赶快下来参加一场紧急会议。
>
>> Does that strike you as a better arrangement?
>>
>
>> Carving that path is my charge.
>>
