---
title: 3. Contingency Supplies
---

# Contingency Supplies

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Noirterel grows worried about the supply stores at Falcon's Nest.

Noirterel

-- You'd like to help out, would you? I suppose there is something you might be able to lend a hand with. We're rather short of foodstuffs. There're plenty of steinbocks wandering around just outside the fortress. Please slay a few of them and bring me their meat. I'd say three should be enough for the time being. It's horrible stuff. It's tough like boot leather and it tastes like it too. But we can't afford to be picky around here--especially not with our food stores looking the way they do.

-- Have you found any of those steinbocks yet? Kill three of them and bring me their meat.

Steinbock Haunch (Item)

-- When dried and smoked, lean steinbock meat will remain unspoiled in the cold Coerthan air almost indefinitely.

Noirterel

-- Do you have the steinbock meat?

-- You have it already? Marvelous! I'm sure you're wondering what I plan to do with something so unappetizing. It's really quite simple─I'm going to leave it outside until it's frozen right through. Falcon's Nest is one of Ishgard's first lines of defense against the Dravanian Horde. We need to resist the dragons' fiercest onslaughts, but we also need to outlast prolonged, protracted sieges. Once frozen, this meat will last a very long time. It may not taste good, but it'll keep our troops fighting when the supply lines have been cut off. Thank you for providing it.
</div>

>> There're plenty of <b class="text-red-500">steinbocks</b> wandering around just outside the fortress.
>>
>
> steinbock  .n. 小羚羊
>
>> I'd say three should be enough for the time being.
>>
>
>> But we can't afford to be picky around here--especially not with our food stores <b class="text-red-500">looking the way</b> they do.
>>
>
> looking the way 看起来的方式：指某人或某物的外观或外貌。
>
> * She always takes care of her appearance and wants to look the way she feels inside. 她总是注重自己的外表，希望外表能与内心感觉相符。
>
>> Steinbock Haunch
>>
>
> haunch  .n. 腰部，腰；臀部
>
>> We need to resist the dragons' fiercest onslaughts, but we also need to <b class="text-red-500">outlast</b> prolonged, <b class="text-red-500">protracted</b> sieges.
>>
>
> outlast  .v. 比……长久；从……中逃生
>
> protracted  .adj. 拖延的

<div class="border p-6">
Noirterel has asked you to gather meat for him. Kill three steinbocks and obtain their meat.

You slay the steinbocks and butcher their carcasses. Return to Noirterel with the meat.

Noirterel explains that, as a key strategic location, Falcon's Nest must withstand some of the Horde's most vicious attacks. These onslaughts take the form of both direct, frontal assaults and long, drawn-out sieges. The meat you recovered will be frozen and stored for use as emergency rations in the event that supply lines are severed.
</div>

>> You slay the steinbocks and butcher their <b class="text-red-500">carcasses</b>.
>>
>
> carcass  .n. 动物尸体，（尤指供食用的）畜体；<幽默>（人的）身躯，躯体；（汽车、建筑等的）残骸；
>
>> Noirterel explains that, as a key strategic location, Falcon's Nest must withstand some of the Horde's most vicious attacks.
>>
>
>> These onslaughts take the form of both direct, frontal assaults and long, <b class="text-red-500">drawn-out</b> sieges.
>>
>
> drawn-out  .adj. 延长的；持续很久的；拉长了的；冗长的；拖延的
>
>> The meat you recovered will be frozen and stored for use as emergency rations in the event that supply lines are <b class="text-red-500">severed</b>.
>>
>
> sever  .v. 切下，（使）断裂，割断；断绝（关系、联系等）

# Grandfather's Belongings

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Ingaret lets out a long, forlorn sigh.

Ingaret

-- <sigh> Even if I had the time to head out there alone, if I ran afoul of those beasts, I wouldn't stand a chance...

-- You see, one of the reasons I requested this posting was so I could recover my grandfather's belongings. They ought to be near the frozen docks of Camp Riversmeet. But things being busy as they are, I'm not at liberty to leave my post at the moment. What's worse, the area is absolutely teeming with monsters, so I can't send just anyone in my stead. But you look like you could handle yourself. Might you be so kind as to help me?

-- If you search the docks near Camp Riversmeet, you're certain to find his things.

Hemming's Trappings (Item)

-- Items used by Ingaret's grandfather when he was a ferryman on the Swiftrun River.

Ingaret

-- Did you find them? Did you find my grandfather's things?

-- Oh, this looks to be everything! Halone's blessings be upon you! My grandfather used to make a living as a ferryman, back before the Calamity. But what good's a ferryman when the ice is thick enough to walk across? Little wonder that his health has gotten so much worse over the years. Aye, a man without purpose is prone to sickness. If I could but remind him of what he once had, though, maybe he'd recover...
</div>

>> Ingaret <b class="text-red-500">lets out</b> a long, <b class="text-red-500">forlorn</b> sign.
>>
>
> let out 有“发出”的意思
>
> * When she saw him, she let out a cry of horror. 看到他时，她发出了惊恐的叫声。
>
> forlorn  .adj. 被遗弃的；绝望的；孤独的
>
>> if I <b class="text-red-500">ran afoul of</b> those beasts, I wouldn't <b class="text-red-500">stand a chance</b>...
>>
>
> ran afoul of 与……发生冲突或争执；触犯：违反法律、规则等而陷入麻烦；
>
> stand a chance 有希望；有可能
>
>> My grandfather used to make a living as a ferryman, back before the Calamity.
>>
>
>> But what good's a ferryman when the ice is thick enough to walk across?
>>
>
>> Aye, a man without purpose is prone to sickness. If I could but remind him of what he once had, though, maybe he'd recover...
>>

<div class="border p-6">
Ingaret had hoped for an opportunity to search the frozen docks near Camp Riversmeet for her grandfather's lost things, but cannot leave her post unmanned. With feral beasts prowling the docks, she cannot send just anyone to search the area in her place─she decides that you are just the woman for the job. Prove her judgment sound by negotiating the wildlife and returning with her grandfather's trappings.

After scouring the docks, you find everything you can that matches Ingaret's description. Return these items to her at Falcon's Nest.

Ingaret thanks you for recovering her grandfather's trappings─reminders of his time as a ferryman at Riversmeet. As mementos of the duty and responsibilities he left behind when fleeing the highlands, she hopes they will help him rediscover the purpose he has lost in his life in recent years.
</div>

>> Prove her judgment sound by negotiating the wildlife and returning with her grandfather's trappings.
>>

# Dances with Wolves

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Ysaudore peers over the cliff with concern.

Ysaudore

-- Some ways beyond here lies Camp Riversmeet. The camp was once the center of luscious pastures─a prime grazing field for cattle and other livestock... Now it's home to naught more than wolves. Pray help drive the beasts away with sword and spell. Slay three silver wolves─let them learn to fear us.

-- Pray drive away the creatures at Camp Riversmeet. Slay three of the silver wolves found skulking there.

-- You've already slain those horrid wolves? You have my deepest thanks. There was a time when there were Ishgardian troops stationed at Camp Riversmeet. Should we recover the camp─were we able to station soldiers there again─it would make our patrols safer, let them cover more area... Before long, we shall move to reclaim the camp. When that time comes, I may call upon your services again.
</div>

>> Ysaudore <b class="text-red-500">peers over</b> the cliff with concern.
>>
>
> peer over 俯身向前看：向前弯腰或俯身以便更好地看清某物。
>
>> The camp was once the center of <b class="text-red-500">luscious</b> <b class="text-red-500">pastures</b>--a prime <b class="text-red-500">grazing</b> field for cattle and other <b class="text-red-500">livestock</b>...
>>
>
> luscious  .adj. 甘美的；满足感官的
>
> pasture  .n. 牧场，牧草地；生活状况，个人发展的机遇
>
> graze  .v. 吃草；放牧；擦过；擦伤，擦破；<非正式>经常吃零食而不吃正餐，吃很多零食；<美，非正式>随意地尝试
>
> livestock  .n. 牲畜，家畜

<div class="border p-6">
The area around Camp Riversmeet was once a field of rich, rolling meadows. Now it is a frozen wasteland, home to fierce, hungry wolves. Ysaudore seems intent on driving these beasts away and has entrusted you with a mission: slay three silver wolves.

You have slain the wolves as requested. Return to Ysaudore, and let her hear of your success.

Ysaudore thanks you for your hard work. Camp Riversmeet once served as a military outpost, quartering Ishgardian troops and facilitating patrols of the surrounding area. Ysaudore hopes to see the camp reclaimed and the area made safe once more.
</div>

>> The area around Camp Riversmeet was once a field of rich, rolling <b class="text-red-500">meadows</b>.
>>
>
> meadow  .n. 草地，牧场；

# An Attractive Charm

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- The hot-tempered knight is trying to catch his breath.

Hot-tempered knight

-- Gods be cursed! Mere moments ago I was mobbed by a huge swarm of frost grenades. I made away with my life, but dropped my magic talisman in the confusion. It was a gift from my family, but the instant those monsters saw it, they lost all interest in me─they tore the thing apart and fled with the pieces! That talisman carries a lot of sentimental value for me. I have to get it back, but I can't leave my post. Hmmm...you strike me as quite the capable sort. Be a good lass and recover it for me, would you? It looked like the talisman was broken into three separate pieces. I didn't see which of the beasts nabbed the pieces, mind you. I was more concerned with escaping before they regained their interest in me. But please, slay the frost grenades and recover my talisman for me!

-- Please recover my talisman. It was torn into three pieces and taken by frost grenades.

Tailsman Fragment (Item)

-- One of three pieces of a talisman carried by an Ishgardian knight for good luck.

Hot-tempered knight

-- Have you the pieces of my magic talisman? Oh, you found them! Words cannot fully express my gratitude. My family made the talisman from an ice crystal. It was meant to protect me, but to be honest, there's more than enough cold around here without me carrying this thing. Still, it carries no small amount of sentimental value for me. I wonder what made the frost grenades swarm over it so. Did they plan to eat it? For something that's supposed to protect me, this talisman is doing a dreadful job. Whatever the reason, I'd much prefer not getting attacked again. I'll be sure to put this somewhere safe in the barracks rather than carrying it on my person. Thank you again for recovering it for me.
</div>

>> The <b class="text-red-500">hot-tempered</b> knight is trying to catch his breath.
>>
>
> hot-tempered  .adj. 暴躁的；性急的；易怒的
>
>> Mere moments ago I was <b class="text-red-500">mobbed</b> by a huge swarm of frost <b class="text-red-500">grenades</b>.
>>
>
> mob  .v. 团团围住；（鸟或兽群）围攻，成群袭击；蜂拥进入
>
> grenade  .n. 手榴弹；灭火弹
>
>> I <b class="text-red-500">made away</b> with my life, but dropped my magic <b class="text-red-500">talisman</b> in the <b class="text-red-500">confusion</b>.
>>
>
> make away  离开，摆脱，毁灭，杀死，自杀
>
> talisman  .n. 护身符；法宝
>
> confusion  有“混乱" 局面的意思
>
>> That talisman carries a lot of <b class="text-red-500">sentimental</b> value for me.
>>
>
> sentimental  .adj. 情感的（而非理性的）；多愁善感的，柔情的；（故事、电影、书等）感伤的，故作伤感的
>
>> Hmmm...you <b class="text-red-500">strike me as</b> quite the capable sort.
>>
>
> strike me as  给我留下的印象是：表示某人对某事有一种直觉或印象。
>
>> Words cannot fully express my gratitude.
>>
>
>> I wonder what made the frost grenades <b class="text-red-500">swarm over</b> it so.
>>
>
> swarm over   蜂拥而至：形容大量的人或动物涌向某个地方。
>
> * The fans swarmed over the celebrity as soon as he arrived at the airport. 明星一到机场，粉丝们就蜂拥而至。

<div class="border p-6">
A knight was attacked by a large swarm of frost grenades. He escaped unharmed, but they tore apart his magic talisman and escaped with the pieces! Slay these thieving critters and recover the three pieces of the magic talisman.

You successfully recover the pieces of the talisman. Return them to the knight at Gorgagne Mills.

The knight is relieved that you were able to recover all the pieces of his talisman. He tells you how his family made it for him from an ice crystal. Realizing that the freezing Coerthan snowdrifts are hardly the ideal place to carry ice crystals on one's person, he decides to leave the talisman in the barracks next time he goes on duty.
</div>

‍
