---
title: 23. As Goes Light, So Goes Darkness
---

## As Goes Light, So Goes Darkness🎧

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Lucia is not one to rest on her laurels.
</div>

>> Lucia is not one to <b class="text-red-500">rest on her laurels</b>.
>>
>
> laurel 月桂树，引申为荣誉。所以这句话的意思就是Lucia不是一个满足于过往成就的人。

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Lucia

-- I do not mean to diminish our accomplishments, but until we identify the ones who ordered the fires set, our work is far from finished.

Thancred

-- Between the various conservative and religious factions in Ishgard, I daresay there is no shortage of parties who would like to see the status quo preserved. Do any likely suspects spring to mind?

Aymeric

-- Far too many to count.

Lucia

-- Lord Commander, your wounds!

Aymeric

-- Are healing well, thank you.

-- Time is of the essence. Lest we forget, these men would sooner put their own city to the torch than see it change. When our enemies learn that we have apprehended their arsonist, there is no telling how they will react.

Tense Temple Knight

-- Lord Commander! An armed mob has seized control of the Vault!

Aymeric

-- And now we know. Tell us what happened, ser. Spare no detail.

Tense Temple Knight

-- We were directing refugees into the basilica, as you ordered, when all of a sudden, men brandishing weapons were all around us. It happened so fast, my lord. We had no time to respond. They've taken the refugees hostage and barricaded themselves inside the Vault.

Aymeric

-- And they sent you to deliver their demands.

Tense Temple Knight

-- They...the True Brothers of the Faith demand that a conclave to select the next archbishop be held forthwith. Furthermore, th-they declare that you, Lord Commander, are guilty of patricide and high treason, and that you must surrender yourself at once to receive of the Fury's judgment.

Lucia

-- Ridiculous! Do they honestly think that executing Ser Aymeric will change anything? That the truth will somehow die with him?

Artoirel

-- These fundamentalists rage against the passing of the old ways, unable to accept there can be no going back.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- Given the fanciful nature of their demands, a peaceful resolution does not seem likely. If the hostages are to be rescued, it will be by force, I fear.

Aymeric

-- Agreed. Lucia, take a contingent of knights and establish a perimeter outside the entrance.

Lucia

-- At once, Lord Commander!

Aymeric

-- Hilda, I need your people out in force throughout the Brume. When word spreads of the situation, the friends and family of the hostages may try to take matters into their own hands. I will not give these militants more targets.

-- I shall lead the assault on the Vault. Master Alphinaud, can I count on the support of the Scions?

Alphinaud

-- Of course!

Aymeric

-- We are in your debt.

Artoirel

-- I shall join you as well, Lord Commander!

Aymeric

-- Your assistance is most welcome, Lord Artoirel. To arms then, friends! Time is against us!
</div>

>> I do not mean to <b class="text-red-500">diminish</b> our accomplishments, but until we identify the ones who ordered the fires set, our work is far from finished.
>>
>
> diminish  .v. 减弱，降低，减少；贬低，轻视
>
>> Between the various conservative and <b class="text-red-500">religious</b> factions in Ishgard, I daresay there is no shortage of parties who would like to see the status quo preserved.
>>
>
> religious  .adj. 宗教的
>
>> Tell us what happened, ser. Spare no detail.
>>
>
>> They've taken the refugees <b class="text-red-500">hostage</b> and <b class="text-red-500">barricaded</b> themselves inside the Vault.
>>
>
> hostage  .n. 人质
>
> barricade  .v. 在……设路障；把…隔离，堵住
>
>> Hilda, I need your people <b class="text-red-500">out in force</b> throughout the Brume.
>>
>
> out in force  大规模出动：指大量的人或物同时出现或行动。
>
> * The protesters were out in force, demanding justice for the victims. 抗议者大规模出动，要求为受害者伸张正义。
>
>> When word spreads of the situation, the friends and family of the hostages may try to <b class="text-red-500">take matters into</b> their own hands.
>>
>
> take matters into  采取行动：主动采取行动来解决问题或处理情况。
>
>> I will not give these <b class="text-red-500">militants</b> more targets.
>>
>
> militant  .n. 激进分子

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Lucia

-- We will hold here, Luna. The Fury guide and keep you!

Hilda

-- Bastards! If I had it my way, I'd be leadin' the charge myself!

Symme

-- Give 'em what for, Luna!

Eudestand

-- Don't you dare let us down! Bring our people home safe!

Alphinaud

-- Ready when you are, Luna!

Y'shtola

-- Concentrate on freeing the hostages. I will tend to their wounds.

Thancred

-- Just like old times, eh?

Artoirel

-- Do not concern yourself with my safety. Lest you forget, I too am a knight.

Handeloup

-- Pray keep in mind that the lord commander has not fully recovered from his wounds. Though the safety of the hostages is of paramount concern, I would ask that you do your utmost to dissuade him from engaging in any...heroics.

Aymeric

-- Listen well. We will enter the basilica silently via this gate. According to our latest reports, there are at least six hostages being held within. The numbers and readiness of the True Brothers of the Faith are unknown.

Artoirel

-- I am told one claimed to have served under Thordan VII. Might the same be true of the rest?

Aymeric

-- Given the swiftness with which they seized control of the Vault, I think it highly likely, yes─which means that they may well possess the knowledge required to turn the building's defenses against us. Be that as it may, we have no choice but to press on. Lord Artoirel─you are a brave man and true, and none would dare question your honor if you chose not to risk your life in this endeavor. Are you certain you wish to join us?

Artoirel

-- I am no stranger to the battlefield, Ser Aymeric! My arm will not falter; my shield will not break! Halone as my witness, we will bring these fanatics to justice!

Aymeric

-- Well said, my lord! Friends─follow me!




</div>

>> Though the safety of the hostages is of paramount concern, I would ask that you do your utmost to <b class="text-red-500">dissuade</b> him from engaging in any...heroics.
>>
>
> dissuade  .v. 劝阻，劝止
>
>> My arm will not <b class="text-red-500">falter</b>; my shield will not break!
>>
>
> falter   .v. 衰弱，衰退；结巴地说，支支吾吾地说；蹒跚，踉跄；犹豫，踌躇；

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Aymeric the Blue: 'Twould seem our presence yet goes unnoticed. Come─we must secure the entrance.
Aymeric the Blue: Remember: saving the hostages takes precedence over all else. Mind your attacks, and subdue the enemy quickly.
Ragged Refugee: You must hurry! The others were taken elsewhere by Ser Simeonard.
Artoirel Ironbone: Ser Simeonard? So this is indeed the work of the archbishop's former servants...
Artoirel Ironbone: On your guard! They've sounded the alarum!
Y'shtola: I will hold the entrance and look after this one. Now go!
Aymeric the Blue: Secure the hostage, Luna! Leave the others to us!
Rugged Refugee: Th-They took the others somewhere. I... It all happened so quickly...
Vault Friar: There they are! Let none escape!
Alphinaud: Keep going! I will hold them here!
Thancred: Not alone you won't! Luna─stay with Ser Aymeric and Lord Artoirel!
Aymeric the Blue: This way, Luna! To the Quire!

--------------------------------------------

Aymeric

-- Ser Simeonard! Lay down your arms and release the hostages, and you will be shown mercy! I give you my word!

Simeonard

-- Hah! The word of a heretic and kinslayer! I would sooner trust a dragon. Activate the knights! We shall show the hostages the same mercy he showed the archbishop!

-- Unlike you, Ser Aymeric, I am a man of honor. By my hand, you shall receive of the Fury's judgment!

Aymeric

-- So it is to be a trial, then. Lord Artoirel, Luna─leave us and save the hostages! I will deal with Ser Simeonard!

--------------------------------------------

Simeonard of the Holiest Flame: O Halone, render unto us Your judgment! Raise up the righteous, and cast down the wicked!
Aymeric the Blue: Come, then! Let us see whom the Fury favors!
Artoirel Ironbone: Ser Aymeric is still wounded, Luna! If we do not move quickly, he will surely fall!
Artoirel Ironbone: There must be others nearby, but where!?
Simeonard of the Holiest Flame: Traitor! Kinslayer! By what sorcery do you yet stand!? Enough! All of you─attack!
Artoirel Ironbone: I see no others nearby. Come, Luna! Ser Aymeric needs our help!
Aymeric the Blue: Well done! Now let us finish this, ser─before the eyes of gods and men!
Simeonard of the Holiest Flame: Stand fast, my brothers! The Fury is with us!
Simeonard of the Holiest Flame: One day...I swear...you will...
Ragged Refugee: You must hurry! The priest took Maelie upstairs when he saw you kill his men!
Aymeric the Blue: Have no fear, child. We will save your friend!
</div>

‍

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Aymeric

-- Where is he? Where is he!?

Vault Priest

-- Come no closer!

Aymeric

-- You have nowhere to run! Release the girl and surrender!

Vault Priest

-- Surrender to whom!? The blasphemer who throws wide the gates to our enemy, who breaks bread with him and calls him brother!? Ungodly swine! I would sooner die than surrender to you!

Aymeric

-- Is it godly to spill the blood of an innocent child!? To burn the homes of your brothers!? Tell me, priest─is that godly!?

Vault Priest

-- Do not speak to me of godliness, heathen! Your father's blood is on your hands─as is hers!

Maelie

-- What? But I...

Lucia

-- Vidofnir!

Vidofnir

-- Well met, knight. Mayhap I chose an inopportune moment?

Lucia

-- Not at all! Pray forgive us this most unworthy reception. We are honored to have you with us, and right glad of your aid!

Vidofnir

-- Fortune delivered the child unto me. I had but to receive her.

Maelie

-- Thank you for savin' me...

Vidofnir

-- Thou art welcome, child.

Aymeric

-- Never did I think to be indebted to so unexpected a savior. But full glad am I to be so.

Vidofnir

-- Friend of Ysayle, warrior of warriors, I had hoped to meet with thee. I bear a message from my sire.

Aymeric

-- From Hraesvelgr?

Vidofnir

-- Upon returning to our lands, Nidhogg's shade did sing unto his brood, and they for skies unknown did then take wing. This thou must know, for your fates are inextricably bound. 

Alphinaud

-- What of Estinien? Is he truly lost to us?

Vidofnir

-- Such matters are beyond my ken. I but bear my father's words. Take from them what thou wilt. Fare you well, mortals.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- So it is as they say, then. A great white dragon swooped down from the heavens to rescue an innocent child.

Aymeric

-- A most unexpected turn of events...but not an unwelcome one. The people will not soon forget this day.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- Yet how will they choose to remember it, Ser Aymeric? And will these events serve to bring man and dragon closer together, or drive a deeper wedge between brothers? After a thousand years, the world these men once knew is changing─and with ungentle swiftness to boot. Though their actions are misguided, their sentiments are only to be expected. You may be sure that others will rally to their cause. I share your desire for a lasting peace with the Dravanians, I do, but I would not see it built on the bones of our countrymen─nor on our own. I see much of Haurchefant in you. And I could not bear to mourn the passing of another son.

Aymeric

-- Lord Edmont...
</div>

>> The <b class="text-red-500">blasphemer</b> who throws wide the gates to our enemy, who breaks bread with him and calls him brother!?
>>
>
> blasphemer  .n. 亵渎者
>
>> Do not speak to me of godliness, <b class="text-red-500">heathen</b>!
>>
>
> heathen  .n. 异教徒；粗野的人
>
>> This thou must know, for your fates are <b class="text-red-500">inextricably</b> bound.
>>
>
> inextricably  .adv. 不可分开地，密不可分地；逃不掉地；解不开地，解决不了地
>
>> A great white dragon <b class="text-red-500">swooped</b> down from the heavens to rescue an innocent child.
>>
>
> swoop  .v. 俯冲；突然袭击；（尤指鸟）猛扑；（非正式）猛地抓起

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Y'shtola

-- In the moments before Vidofnir appeared, I contemplated teleporting the girl. Thank the Twelve that I did not.

Thancred

-- Well that was timely. Vidofnir must have been circling for hours.

Alphinaud

-- This has been a day of surprises, has it not? 'Tis but a pity Vidofnir could not stay longer.

Thancred

-- Yes, I think it's fair to say that she timed her departure rather less well than her arrival.

Y'shtola

-- Well-timed scarcely does it justice. But one moment later would have been a moment too late.

Alphinaud

-- Let us pray that the Ishgardians who yet harbored doubts will take these events to heart and accept the truth of Ser Aymeric's words. Well, 'tis only meet that I inform Tataru of what has occurred here. If you have need of me, I shall be at Fortemps Manor.

Thancred

-- Allow me to accompany you. Tataru would never forgive me if I left for the Rising Stones without saying good-bye.

Y'shtola

-- A moment, Luna. I wish a word. Tell me, does Thancred seem quite well to you?

Me

-- (Option 1) He held his own in the Vault.
-- (Option 2) He got on well enough with Hilda.
-- (Option 3) I'm not sure how to put it into words, but...

Y'shtola

-- (Respon to 1) That he did─which is especially remarkable given the injury to his eye. I can only assume that his time in the wilderness afforded him ample opportunity to compensate for his impairment. However, I speak not of his physical state, but rather his aetheric flow, which I fear has been irreparably disrupted.

-- (Respon to 2) Of that I have no doubt. His time in the wilderness did not deprive him of his charm. But that is neither here nor there. What concerns me is his aetheric flow, which I fear has been irreparably disrupted.

-- (Respon to 3) So you sense it too. A subtle change, imperceptible to most. I myself did not notice it at first, but upon closer examination, I saw that his aetheric flow had been irreparably disrupted.

-- As a result, I strongly suspect that his ability to manipulate aether has been compromised. Simply put, Thancred may no longer be able to wield magicks. It would do much to explain why he chose to remain within the wilderness instead of seeking us out. He would have been compelled to rely solely on traditional methods of travel, significantly prolonging his journey. And when he learned that a nearby beast tribe was making preparations to summon a primal, it may well have seemed more sensible to wait. But this is still little more than speculation. Until I have proof, pray speak no word of it.

Y'shtola

-- Right, then. I should be on my way. Krile may have charmed Master Matoya for now, but who can say how long it will last.
</div>

>> Well that was timely. Vidofnir must have been circling for hours.
>>
>
> （Vidofnir得盘旋了好几个小时才下来的？）
>
>> He <b class="text-red-500">held his own</b> in the Vault. 
>>
>
> hold one's own  展示自己有能力；提供一个体面的表现或有价值的竞争；为自己辩护
>
>> I'm not sure how to put it into words, but...
>>
>
>> He <b class="text-red-500">got on well</b> enough with Hilda.
>>
>
> get on well  相处融洽：指人际关系良好，相处愉快，没有矛盾或冲突。
>
> * My sister and I get on well with each other. 我和我姐姐相处得很好。
>
>> His time in the wilderness did not deprive him of his charm. But that is <b class="text-red-500">neither here nor there</b>. What concerns me is his aetheric flow, which I fear has been <b class="text-red-500">irreparably</b> disrupted.
>>
>
> neither here nor there  无关紧要的：在当前问题上没有影响或重要性。
>
> * The fact that he arrived late is neither here nor there. 他迟到了并不重要。
>
> irreparably  .adv. 不能恢复地；不能挽回地
>
>> So you sense it too. A subtle change, <b class="text-red-500">imperceptible</b> to most.
>>
>
> imperceptible  .adj. 感觉不到的；极细微的
>
>> As a result, I strongly suspect that his ability to manipulate aether has been compromised.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Hilda

-- After this, I reckon there'll be a few less folk cursin' dragons 'round here, and a few more cursin' the clergy─which is fine by me.

Symme

-- Well, I'll be damned! Not only is Maelie safe, but she got to ride a dragon!

Eudestand

-- We're the only family Maelie's got─her and a lot of other children. All the more reason to strengthen the watch, I say.

Lucia

-- Since Haurchefant's death, Lord Edmont has grown ever more cautious. To speak plain, the man is afraid to hope. But I am not. Vidofnir's act of heroism will serve to shift public opinion in our favor, of that I have no doubt.

Handeloup

-- Words cannot well express our gratitude, Luna. Thank you for rescuing the hostages...and for keeping the lord commander safe.

Manservant

-- When I heard the commotion, I went outside to look, but all I saw was the dragon's silhouette on the horizon...

Tataru

-- Lord Edmont told me all about what Vidofnir did! Gods, how I wish I had been there to see it.

Steward

-- It is a relief to see that you are unharmed, Mistress Kali. Pray remain here a moment─Lord Artoirel should be returning shortly.
</div>

>> All the more reason to strengthen the watch, I say.
>>
>
>> Since Haurchefant's death, Lord Edmont has grown ever more cautious.
>>
>
>> When I heard the commotion, I went outside to look, but all I saw was the dragon's <b class="text-red-500">silhouette</b> on the horizon...
>>
>
> silhouette  .v. 把……画成黑色轮廓像，使现出影像（或轮廓）

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Alphinaud

-- That Vidofnir should chance to arrive even as the girl fell... Truly, I could not have planned it better myself.

Artoirel

-- Ah, good. We were afraid you might have left.

Alphinaud

-- A shield, my lord?

Artoirel

-- Fit for a true knight. An expression of our gratitude to you and yours, long overdue.

-- ...But there is something else I would discuss ere you part. Something which cannot leave this room. My father will soon step down as head of our house. Ser Aymeric was not the only one to fall under suspicion following the death of the archbishop. There are some who believe my father complicit in a coup d'état. Thus he intends to renounce his title to absolve our house of suspicion and secure the support of our peers.

Alphinaud

-- Surely there must be another way to convince houses Durendaire and Dzemael?

Artoirel

-- So I said to him. Alas, he will not budge.

-- Ever since I was a child, I knew that I would one day succeed my father, and the thought of it filled me with pride. Yet once I learned the day was at hand, my heart was filled with naught but dread. Our legacy is built upon the lies of our forefathers. In accepting this title, am I not perpetuating this injustice? Why should I become the next count?

Me

-- A knight lives to serve.

Artoirel

-- You sound just like him. Aye, I suspect that is what Haurchefant would have said. “To aid those in need...” When you look on that shield, I trust you will remember his words. And should I once more find my resolve wavering, I ask that you show me the way. You were a sister to Haurchefant. Will you be a sister to me as well?

-- Come, Emmanellain. There is much to be done. For Father, and for Ser Aymeric. And for Ishgard.

-- <sigh> To think we share the same blood... Pray excuse us.
</div>

>> That Vidofnir should chance to arrive even as the girl fell... Truly, I could not have planned it better myself.
>>
>
>> An expression of our gratitude to you and yours, <b class="text-red-500">long overdue</b>.
>>
>
> long overdue   早该做的，过期已久的：指本应早就完成或处理的事情，但一直拖延到现在。
>
> * The repair work on the bridge is long overdue. 这座桥的修缮工作早该完成了。
>
>> There are some who believe my father complicit in a <b class="text-red-500">coup d'état</b>.
>>
>
> coup d'état 政变（YM第二集中也出现过）
>
>> So I said to him. Alas, he will not <b class="text-red-500">budge</b>.
>>
>
> budge  .v. （使）改变主意，（使）让步；（使）稍微移动；<美，非正式> 给别人挪开一块地方；
>
>> Ever since I was a child, I knew that I would one day succeed my father, and the thought of it filled me with pride. Yet once I learned the day was at hand, my heart was filled with naught but dread.
>>
>
>> In accepting this title, am I not <b class="text-red-500">perpetuating</b> this injustice?
>>
>
> perpetuate  .v. 使持续，使长久（尤指不好的事物）
>
>> And should I once more find my resolve wavering, I ask that you show me the way.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Those were the days of promises and vows─of tentative first steps into an uncertain future. A future shaped by the choices we made, in ways we could never have foreseen. Born of good and evil, of light and darkness, and shepherded by our hand. Be it for weal, or be it for woe.

From the memoirs of Count Edmont de Fortemps Heavensward: As Goes Light, So Goes Darkness
</div>

‍

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Urianger

-- ...This is thy proof? The Gerun Oracles? Apocrypha.

Elidibus

-- It is a truth long forgotten─a tale of the beginning, and of the path we have been set upon. Our fates were ordained long ago, Archon. The Garleans are no exception. Nor the Triad. You know what must be done.

--------------------------------------------

Papalymo

-- ...Well?

Yda

-- Everyone has their orders. The Masks will attack as soon as all units are in position. The imperials won't know what hit them.

Papalymo

-- I fear it will be bloody...

Yda

-- By Rhalgr, it had better be.

Papalymo

-- We cannot stay here forever, Yda. We have other responsibilities.

Yda

-- I know full well what my responsibilities are─and I mean to fulfill them, every one!
</div>

>> ...This is thy proof? The Gerun Oracles? Apocrypha.
>>
>
> Apocrypha   .n. 新约外传（未列入《圣经新约》的某些类似《圣经》的早期基督教著作）
>
>> Our fates were <b class="text-red-500">ordained</b> long ago, Archon.
>>
>
> ordain  .v. 任命某人为牧师；授某人以圣职；（上帝、法律等）命令；注定

<div class="border-4 p-6">
As you and the others debate how best to proceed, Ser Aymeric enters the room in the company of lords Edmont and Artoirel to the delight and relief of all present. Alas, the resulting mood of optimism is soon soured by the arrival of a panicked knight bearing grave tidings: a rebel faction calling themselves the True Brothers of the Faith have seized control of the Vault, and taken the refugees sheltering within hostage. Needless to say, the lord commander cannot bow to the demands of such zealots, leaving him with but one option: an armed assault. Without hesitation, you and your fellow Scions volunteer to help, prompting Lord Artoirel to pledge his support as well.

Though you succeed in sneaking into the basilica undetected, the rebels soon catch wind of your presence, and attempt to execute the hostages. Fortunately, they are no match for you and your allies, and together you are able to rescue all but one of their captives─a young girl named Maelie, whom you learn was borne off to the upper levels by a priest. You, Ser Aymeric, and Lord Artoirel have no choice but to give chase.

You finally corner the priest on the uppermost level of the Vault, and Ser Aymeric demands his immediate surrender. Alas, the man will not hear reason, being convinced beyond all doubt that Ser Aymeric is a traitor to both kin and country. In a final act of defiance, he throws Maelie from the ledge, sending the child tumbling towards the plaza.

Far below, Lucia and Y'shtola can only watch in horror as the screaming figure plummets towards them. But just when all hope seems lost, a great white dragon swoops down to pluck her from the very jaws of death. Vidofnir!

Soon after, you, Ser Aymeric, and Lord Artoirel join the others outside, where Vidofnir is waiting to deliver a warning from Hraesvelgr. It would seem Nidhogg and his brood have flown for skies unknown. When Alphinaud subsequently presses the dragon for answers regarding Estinien, she declares that she can provide none, and bids you farewell. Though her visit was all too brief, Ser Aymeric hopes that it will do much to change the opinions of the common man. Yet Lord Edmont, who does not share in his optimism, implores the young knight to move with greater caution, lest more perish in his headlong rush for change─not least Ser Aymeric himself, whom the count plainly cherishes as a son.

In the wake of Vidofnir's departure, Y'shtola speaks to you privately regarding Thancred, in whom she senses a troubling change. According to her, his aetheric flow has been disrupted in a manner which would theoretically prevent him from wielding all magicks, teleportation included. Though she stresses that this is as yet mere speculation, it would do much to explain why he did not risk seeking out the Scions upon learning that a primal had been summoned. In the absence of proof, however, you have no choice but to remain silent and attend Alphinaud in Fortemps Manor.

As you discuss recent events with Alphinaud and Tataru, lords Artoirel and Emmanellain enter, having come to present you all a token of their gratitude: a House Fortemps shield fit for a true knight. It soon becomes clear, however, that this was not Artoirel's only reason for seeking an audience when he reveals that Count Edmont means to step aside, leaving him to take his father's place as the head of House Fortemps. In this way, Count Edmont intends to rid the house of the lingering suspicion that it was complicit in a coup d'état orchestrated by Ser Aymeric. Yet while Lord Artoirel had long dreamed of this day, it would seem that the recent revelations regarding the founding fathers of Ishgard had prompted him to question the value of his birthright─until, that is, he recalled his late brother's words: “A knight lives to serve─to aid those in need.” And so he vows to follow Haurchefant's proud example and labor for the greater good of Ishgard. And should his resolve waver, he hopes that you will show him the way─as a sister.
</div>

>> As you and the others debate how best to proceed, Ser Aymeric enters the room in the company of lords Edmont and Artoirel to the delight and relief of all present.
>>
>
>> Alas, the resulting mood of optimism is soon soured by the arrival of a panicked knight bearing grave tidings: a rebel faction calling themselves the True Brothers of the Faith have seized control of the Vault, and taken the refugees sheltering within hostage.
>>
>
>> Needless to say, the lord commander cannot bow to the demands of such zealots, leaving him with but one option: an armed assault.
>>
>
>> Though you succeed in <b class="text-red-500">sneaking into</b> the basilica undetected, the rebels soon catch wind of your presence, and attempt to execute the hostages.
>>
>
> sneak into   潜入：秘密或偷偷地进入某个地方，通常是为了做一些不被允许的事情。
>
> * The thief tried to sneak into the house through the window. 小偷试图通过窗户潜入房子。
>
>> Fortunately, they are no match for you and your allies, and together you are able to rescue all but one of their captives─a young girl named Maelie, whom you learn was <b class="text-red-500">borne off</b> to the upper levels by a priest.
>>
>
> bear off 获得，夺得：在比赛或竞争中赢得或带走（例如奖品）
>
>> Alas, the man will not hear reason, being convinced beyond all doubt that Ser Aymeric is a traitor to both kin and country.
>>
>
>> In a final act of <b class="text-red-500">defiance</b>, he throws Maelie from the <b class="text-red-500">ledge</b>, sending the child <b class="text-red-500">tumbling</b> towards the plaza.
>>
>
> defiance  .n. 违抗，蔑视
>
> ledge  .n. 岩架；壁架；窗台；暗礁；矿层
>
> tumble  .v. 翻滚，滚落；摔倒，跌倒；倒塌，坍塌；（价格、数量等）暴跌，骤降；
>
>> Far below, Lucia and Y'shtola can only watch in horror as the screaming figure <b class="text-red-500">plummets</b> towards them.
>>
>
> plummet  .v.（数量、价值等）暴跌；（尤指从高处）坠落
>
>> But just when all hope seems lost, a great white dragon swoops down to pluck her from the very jaws of death.
>>
>
>> When Alphinaud subsequently presses the dragon for answers regarding Estinien, she declares that she can provide none, and bids you farewell.
>>
>
>> Yet Lord Edmont, who does not share in his optimism, implores the young knight to move with greater caution, lest more perish in his headlong rush for change─not least Ser Aymeric himself, whom the count plainly <b class="text-red-500">cherishes</b> as a son.
>>
>
> cherish  .v. 珍视，珍爱；怀念（过去），抱有（希望）
>
>> In the wake of Vidofnir's departure, Y'shtola speaks to you privately regarding Thancred, in whom she senses a troubling change. 
>>
>
>> According to her, his aetheric flow has been disrupted in a manner which would theoretically prevent him from wielding all magicks, teleportation included.
>>
>
>> Though she stresses that this is as yet mere speculation, it would do much to explain why he did not risk seeking out the Scions upon learning that a primal had been summoned.
>>
>
>> In the absence of proof, however, you have no choice but to remain silent and attend Alphinaud in Fortemps Manor.
>>
>
>> It soon becomes clear, however, that this was not Artoirel's only reason for seeking an audience when he reveals that Count Edmont means to step aside, leaving him to take his father's place as the head of House Fortemps.
>>
>
>> In this way, Count Edmont intends to rid the house of the lingering suspicion that it was complicit in a coup d'état orchestrated by Ser Aymeric.
>>
>
>> And so he vows to follow Haurchefant's proud example and labor for the greater good of Ishgard.
>>

## As It Once Was🎧

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Tataru is waiting to share good tidings with you and Alphinaud.

Alphinaud

-- Much as I worry for the future of Ishgard, the fate of our missing friends concerns me even more...

Tataru

-- Alphinaud, Luna! I've been looking all over for you! We've received news regarding F'lhaminn, Hoary Boulder, and Coultenet!

Alphinaud

-- Really? Has something happened?

Tataru

-- No, no, it's nothing bad─quite the opposite, in fact! It seems that once they learned the Scions' good name had been restored, they boarded the next ship bound for Limsa Lominsa. They should be arriving any moment now! It's easy to forget how useful linkpearls are, isn't it? When they work, I mean. And you don't mind being spied on.

Alphinaud

-- Quite. But what wonderful news! To think that our reunion is close at hand.

Thancred

-- A pleasure to see you too, Alphinaud.

Alphinaud

-- Ah, Thancred...and Krile. What brings the two of you here?

Thancred

-- Krile and I have been looking into how we might track down Minfilia.

Krile

-- And we may just have found the answer. Luna--when you were fleeing Ul'dah with Minfilia, you said that Hydaelyn spoke to her shortly before you parted ways, yes? Well, assuming that is true─and I see no reason to suspect that it is not─it seems reasonable to conclude that Hydaelyn commanded her to remain behind. That is to say, the Mothercrystal directly interceded to guide Minfilia. Admittedly, this is all still quite hypothetical, but I propose that such intervention, however subtle, must surely leave some residual trace. A lingering disturbance in the aether─or ripple, if you will. In order to establish the existence of such ripples, of course, we will require suitable data.

Thancred

-- Fortunately, I know where such data can be found: the battleground where Luna felled the Ultima Weapon...and the site of my personal ignominy. 'Twas there that Hydaelyn intervened to shield her from the magick I invoked. Krile and I will infiltrate the castrum and analyze the aether therein.

Alphinaud

-- The two of you? Alone?

Thancred

-- I have a proven knack for subterfuge, and I am confident there will be sufficient nooks and crannies in which to hide Krile while the patrols pass. Besides, if you and Luna come along, who will see to F'lhaminn's grand homecoming?

Alphinaud

-- When you put it like that... Very well, I will trust in your plan.

-- I know not whether this data will yield a means to find Minfilia, but it will at the very least eliminate another avenue of inquiry. Tataru and I will return to the Rising Stones and make preparations for our comrades' return. Might I impose upon you to meet them at the Lominsan docks? Then I shall see the four of you at the Rising Stones. Safe travels!
</div>

>> Alphinaud, Luna! I've been <b class="text-red-500">looking all over</b> for you!
>>
>
> look all over  到处寻找：在各个地方进行搜索或寻找某物或某人。
>
>> No, no, it's nothing bad─quite the opposite, in fact!
>>
>
>> To think that our reunion is close at hand.
>>
>
>> Krile and I have been <b class="text-red-500">looking into</b> how we might track down Minfilia.
>>
>
> look into  调查或询问：进行调查或询问。
>
> * The police promised to look into the matter.  警方承诺会调查此事。
>
>> it seems reasonable to conclude that Hydaelyn commanded her to remain behind.
>>
>
>> That is to say, the Mothercrystal directly <b class="text-red-500">interceded</b> to guide Minfilia.
>>
>
> intercede  .v. 调解，调停；求情，说项
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">Admittedly</b>, this is all still quite hypothetical, but I propose that such intervention, however subtle, must surely leave some residual trace.
>>
>
> admittedly .v. 诚然，不可否认地
>
>> A lingering disturbance in the aether─or <b class="text-red-500">ripple</b>, if you will.
>>
>
> ripple  .n. 涟漪；（外观或运动）如波纹的东西；（声音的）传播起伏，（感情的）逐渐扩散；连锁反应；
>
>> Fortunately, I know where such data can be found: the battleground where Luna felled the Ultima Weapon...and the site of my personal <b class="text-red-500">ignominy</b>.
>>
>
> ignominy  .n. 耻辱；不体面；丑行
>
>> Krile and I will infiltrate the castrum and analyze the aether <b class="text-red-500">therein</b>.
>>
>
> therein  .adv. 在其中；在那里
>
>> I have a proven knack for <b class="text-red-500">subterfuge</b>, and I am confident there will be sufficient <b class="text-red-500">nooks</b> and <b class="text-red-500">crannies</b> in which to hide Krile while the patrols pass.
>>
>
> subterfuge  .n. 托词；借口；诡计
>
> nook  .n. 角落；隐匿处；核武器；凹处
>
> cranny  .n. 裂隙，裂缝
>
>> Besides, if you and Luna come along, who will see to F'lhaminn's grand <b class="text-red-500">homecoming</b>?
>>
>
> homecoming  .n. 归国；同学会；省亲回家
>
>> I know not whether this data will yield a means to find Minfilia, but it will at the very least eliminate another avenue of inquiry.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Alphinaud

-- Oh? Lady F'lhaminn is not with you?

Tataru

-- I can't wait to hear what adventures they've had!

Hoary Boulder

-- Is that...? By the gods, it is you! Well met, Luna, well met!

Coultenet

-- If it isn't Luna Kali! Really, you didn't have to come all this way just for us!

F'lhaminn

-- Oh, Luna! How have you been? Come here─let me have a good look at you. Thank the Twelve. One hears the strangest tales in foreign lands. I worried about you all every day...

Coultenet

-- We would have sent word sooner, but the Braves afforded us no opportunity. When they fell upon us in the market, it was all we could do to escape. Tataru found her way to you, of course, but we were forced to seek shelter aboard a Hannish vessel.

Hoary Boulder

-- It pained us not being there when you needed us most. But we made the most of it, didn't we, Coultenet? Studied and trained from dusk till dawn, we did!

F'lhaminn

-- We would have sent word sooner, but we knew not whom to trust, and with the vast distance... But those dark days are behind us at last. I shall be glad indeed to return home and speak with my daughter.

-- What do you mean she's missing!? How could you let this happen!?

-- Forgive me, I...I am sure you are doing everything in your power to find her. ...As Thancred must be. He watched over her from the first─long before me. And he will watch over her to the last. I shall pray for her safe return, and busy myself in the meantime.

Coultenet

-- For a certainty, there is much and more to be done. The Braves may have bloodied us, but the path remains, and we shall not be swayed from it.

Hoary Boulder

-- Aye, that's the spirit! To the Scions, and a long overdue reunion! Huzzah!

F'lhaminn

-- Well, there you have it. To the Rising Stones!
</div>

>> When they <b class="text-red-500">fell upon</b> us in the market, it was all we could do to escape.
>>
>
> fell upon  袭击；突然袭击
>
>> Studied and trained from <b class="text-red-500">dusk</b> till dawn, we did!
>>
>
> dusk 黄昏，傍晚；暮色；昏暗，幽暗
>
>> I shall pray for her safe return, and busy myself in the meantime.
>>
>
>> For a certainty, there is much and more to be done. The Braves may have bloodied us, but the path remains, and we shall not be swayed from it.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Krile

-- Well done, sir. And with that, I believe we are ready to proceed.

Thancred

-- Let us be about our business then. The next patrol may not be so credulous.

Krile

-- Why must you be so disappointingly brusque? You're not at all as Minfilia described, you know. I don't think you've favored me with so much as a single compliment since we set out. Tell me, did your time in the wilderness sap you of all your charm, or are you holding it in reserve for your beloved?

Thancred

-- This is neither the time nor the place.

Krile

-- Well, call me old-fashioned, but when I'm risking life and limb infiltrating an imperial castrum, I like to be sure of my comrades' motivations.

Thancred

-- I see now where Alphinaud gets it from. Minfilia is dear to me, it is true─but not in the way you think. Fifteen years past, when she was still but a child, there was an incident at a parade. A goobbue broke free of its fetters and ran amok through the streets of Ul'dah. Had I been more attentive, I could have prevented it...but I was distracted, and her father was killed. I feared she would never recover, but in the years that followed, she showed herself to be more resilient than I had ever imagined. And when she learned of her gift, she did not flinch from the responsibility, but sought to guide others on the path. She touched the hearts of all around her. Mine, Louisoix's, every Scion's. In those dark days following the Calamity, she was our guiding light─our hope for a brighter future. She had so many dreams...and I would give anything to make them come true.

Krile

-- My apologies. I can see she means the world to you. I did not mean to pick at old scars.

Thancred

-- No harm done, I assure you. But fair is fair, my lady─what is Minfilia to you?

Krile

-- You mean you don't know? Only my dearest friend. When I finally emerged from my torpor, I learned that nary a day had passed without her asking after me. She never gave up hope.

-- And neither will I.

Thancred

-- Then for Minfilia's sake, let us pray that these vestiges of Hydaelyn's intervention will lead us to her.
</div>

>> The next patrol may not be so <b class="text-red-500">credulous</b>.
>>
>
> credulous  .adj. 轻信的；因轻信而产生的
>
>> Why must you be so disappointingly <b class="text-red-500">brusque</b>?
>>
>
> brusque  .adj. 唐突的；直率的；无礼的
>
>> I don't think you've favored me with so much as a single compliment since we set out.
>>
>
> set out 开始旅行或出发：开始进行一次旅行或行程；开始做某事：开始进行某项活动或任务。
>
>> Well, <b class="text-red-500">call me old-fashioned</b>, but when I'm risking life and limb infiltrating an imperial castrum, I like to be sure of my comrades' motivations.
>>
>
> call me old-fashioned  说我老古板：表示自己的观点或行为比较传统或老派，但并不介意别人这样称呼自己。
>
> * Call me old-fashioned, but I still prefer writing letters to sending emails. 说我老古板吧，但我还是更喜欢写信而不是发邮件。
>
>> Fifteen years past, when she was still but a child, there was an incident at a <b class="text-red-500">parade</b>.
>>
>
> parade  .n. 游行；列队表演，展示；检阅，阅兵；阅兵场；一系列（人或事）；
>
>> A goobbue broke free of its fetters and <b class="text-red-500">ran amok</b> through the streets of Ul'dah.
>>
>
> ran amok  狂暴失控：指一个人或动物突然变得非常暴力和不可预测，通常会对周围的人或物造成伤害。
>
> * The bull ran amok in the china shop, causing a lot of damage.  那头公牛在瓷器店里狂暴失控，造成了很多损失。
>
>> And when she learned of her gift, she did not <b class="text-red-500">flinch</b> from the responsibility, but sought to guide others on the path.
>>
>
> flinch  .v. 退缩；畏惧
>
>> I did not mean to pick at old scars.
>>
>
>> But fair is fair, my lady─what is Minfilia to you?
>>
>
>> When I finally emerged from my torpor, I learned that nary a day had passed without her asking after me. She never gave up hope.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Hoary Boulder

-- Ahhh, it's great to be back in the Toll! <sniff> It even smells like adventure!

Coultenet

-- Home at last... I must make my rounds and see who remains.

F'lhaminn

-- ...It feels good to be home again. To think that everyone is waiting for us, just beyond those doors. Friends and family with whom we have shared so much... ...Gods help me, but the older I get, the more sentimental I become. Come, let us not keep them waiting.

Alphinaud

-- And there they are, at last. Thank the Twelve...

Tataru

-- Nothing like a homecoming to lift everyone's spirits! Thanks for bringing them back, Luna.

Alianne

-- When our comrades betrayed us, I feared all was lost. How wrong I was!

Ephemie

-- We must tell the children at once! They've always been so fond of Hoary.

Bluomwyda

-- I worry that Aergmhus is getting a bit carried away, but I suppose I can overlook it on this occasion.

Isildaure

-- Aye, aye, I heard it all from Alianne. So, where is she? If I'm to greet the Songstress of Ul'dah, I would do so on my feet!

Ocher Boulder

-- Huzzah! He is returned! Together, my brother and I shall serve the Scions till the breaking of an eighth dawn!

Aenor

-- Oh my. Decisions, decisions...

Clemence

-- First Ocher, and now Hoary! A passing fancy I could suffer, but this!? She's hopeless! Utterly hopeless!

V'mah Tia

-- Is that the Lady F'lhaminn I've heard so much about? Well, well! I shall have to introduce myself.
</div>

>> Home at last... I must <b class="text-red-500">make my rounds</b> and see who remains.
>>
>
> make rounds  四处走访：与许多人交谈或拜访多个地方。
>
> * The doctor needs to make rounds to check on all the patients. 医生需要四处走访，检查所有的病人。
>
>> I worry that Aergmhus is getting a bit <b class="text-red-500">carried away</b>, but I suppose I can overlook it on this occasion.
>>
>
> carried away  情绪激动：被情感或热情激发到高度甚至过度的程度。
>
> * She was so carried away by the music that she couldn't help but dance. 她被音乐所感动，情绪激动得忍不住跳起舞来。
>
>> If I'm to greet the <b class="text-red-500">Songstress</b> of Ul'dah, I would do so on my feet!
>>
>
> Songstress   .n. 女歌手；女诗人；

<div class="border-4 p-6">
F'lhaminn

-- Alianne, Ephemie! It fills my heart with joy to see you both hale and healthy. And what of Higiri?

Ephemie

-- She is well, though abroad on a mission at present.

Alianne

-- It just wasn't the same without you. Welcome back, my lady!

F'lhaminn

-- Twelve be praised, so many are still with us...

Aergmhus

-- Ah, we could do with more of that around here! Heartfelt reunions with stalwart companions! Brings a─<belch>─brings a bloody tear to the eye! 

-- Brilliant, bloody brilliant! <belch>

Homei

-- To secret oneself in a ship's hold to secure safe passage to a faraway land... This is a tale we know all too well. When they are well rested, I should like to seek a formal introduction.

Isildaure

-- Why wait, my friend? Come, there is no need to be shy!

Homei

-- Pray grant me a moment longer, at least! Though I am happy to oblige you, my legs are rather less accommodating...

-- Isildaure has the spirit of a man half his age. I imagine his granddaughter often struggled to keep up.

Hoary Boulder

-- Ocher! What in the seven hells drove my little brother to come to Mor Dhona?

Ocher Boulder

-- Why, you, Brother─you and the Scions, of course! For a thousand days I trained, that I might grow as strong as you─that I might fight alongside you! Yet now that you are here, I sense that you have surpassed me once more... No, do not tell me─you trained with the Hannish, did you not?

Hoary Boulder

-- Your eyes do not deceive, Brother! Aye, I have studied the Trials of the Braves, and drunk deep of the souls of mine enemies!

-- An unexpected but welcome reunion indeed! And a challenge, besides. It would not do to be bested by my little brother, oh no. Not after having come so far!

Coultenet

-- Glad though I am to be home, I cannot help but think of those who have yet to return...Once we have settled in, I would join the search.

-- We all must do our duty─and I am no exception. Our brothers and sisters are counting on us.
</div>

>> Heartfelt reunions with <b class="text-red-500">stalwart</b> companions!
>>
>
> stalwart  .adj. 忠诚的；健壮的；勤奋的
>
>> I imagine his granddaughter often struggled to <b class="text-red-500">keep up</b>.
>>
>
> keep up 坚持下去：持续做某事。

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Tataru

-- It's been so long since I've seen them all like this.

Alphinaud

-- Too long...'Twas the chaos born of my foolish ambition which forced them to flee. Though they are returned, there are others yet missing─others whom we cannot forsake.

Tataru

-- We'll find them, Alphinaud─I know we will! Minfilia, Yda, Papalymo...every last one! And when they walk through those doors, we'll be here to welcome them home. With me at the head of the queue, of course!

-- It'll all be like it was. Just you wait and see!

F'lhaminn

-- ...Mayhap it is for the best that I remain ignorant of the details. Otherwise, I might be tempted to do something rash. I will place my faith in you all, and the Twelve to see her returned to me.

Alianne

-- Now that Lady F'lhaminn and the others have returned, we can redouble our efforts to find Yda and Papalymo. If only we had some inkling of where they went when they left Pearl Lane...

Ephemie

-- A shame that Higiri was not here to welcome Lady F'lhaminn home. Still, it shall be a pleasure to see the look on her face when she returns and learns of her homecoming!

Aergmhus

-- 'Bout time everyone came back to the Toll! Though there's still a few missing, like young Wilred. Been too long since that boy and I had a drink!

Bluomwyda

-- (I know, I know. I will look after him and see that he is fit for duty.)

Homei

-- A warrior should not boast or brag of his accomplishments. So it was taught to me by my father, and by his father before him. Yet I must admit that I delight in hearing the young ones tell of their adventures. Their eagerness, their boldness─it is comforting and inspirational both. When the time comes to reclaim what was lost, I know they will rise to the challenge.

Isildaure

-- Lately I've been practicing calisthenics every morning to stay loose and limber. In fact, I think I might be fit to venture out into the field once more!

Hoary Boulder

-- But enough about me, Brother─what of your escapades? And what of this fetching young lady with whom you seem so well acquainted?

Ocher Boulder

-- Perceptive as ever, Brother! Aye, Aenor and I have taken part in many a mission together, and through adversity have forged unbreakable bonds! Indeed, her skillful ministrations have provided much comfort...

Aenor

-- Mmm... Why not both?

Coultenet

-- Looks like Hoary is off to a smashing start. Mayhap I should leave them to it and set about being sociable myself. Besides, I'd rather not be around when these two rising stones begin to clash.

Clemence

-- But I don't understand! I was the healer on those expeditions! How could she have─Oh...oh gods... I was sleeping less than ten fulms away! I...<sniffle> <sob>...I have no sister!

V'mah Tia

-- We'll keep things running smoothly while you're away, miss. You should devote all your attention to the search for the missing Scions.
</div>

>> 'Twas the chaos born of my foolish ambition which forced them to flee.
>>
>
>> Otherwise, I might be <b class="text-red-500">tempted</b> to do something <b class="text-red-500">rash</b>.
>>
>
> tempted  .adj. 被引诱 (而想做) 的
>
> rash .adj. 轻率的，鲁莽的
>
>> Their eagerness, their boldness─it is comforting and <b class="text-red-500">inspirational</b> both.
>>
>
> inspirational  .adj. 启发灵感的，鼓舞人心的；绝妙的
>
>> When the time comes to reclaim what was lost, I know they will rise to the challenge.
>>
>
>> Lately I've been practicing <b class="text-red-500">calisthenics</b> every morning to stay <b class="text-red-500">loose</b> and <b class="text-red-500">limber</b>.
>>
>
> calisthenics  .n. 健美体操
>
> loose   .adj. 未固定牢的，松动的；零散的，松脱的；不受束缚的，未拴住的；
>
> limber  .adj. 柔软的；敏捷的
>
>> But enough about me, Brother─what of your <b class="text-red-500">escapades</b>? And what of this <b class="text-red-500">fetching</b> young lady with whom you seem so well acquainted?
>>
>
> escapade  .n. 越轨行为；恶作剧
>
> fetching   .adj.（非正式）迷人的，动人的
>
>> Indeed, her skillful <b class="text-red-500">ministrations</b> have provided much comfort...
>>
>
> ministration  .n. 援助；服侍；职务
>
>> Looks like Hoary is off to a <b class="text-red-500">smashing</b> start.
>>
>
> smashing  .adj.（英，非正式）了不起的，极好的；粉碎性的，猛烈的
>
>> Besides, I'd rather not be around when these two rising stones begin to <b class="text-red-500">clash</b>.
>>
>
> clash  .n. 冲突，交战；争论，争执；交锋，比赛；分歧，差异；

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Tataru proudly informs you that F'lhaminn, Hoary Boulder, and Coultenet─the three Scions of the Seventh Dawn forced to flee Limsa Lominsa and the Crystal Braves' betrayal─are at last homeward bound. Not to be outdone, however, Krile and Thancred appear shortly thereafter, to share with the others the next step in their plan for tracking down Minfilia. Theorizing that Hydaelyn's direct intercession must leave a measurable impact on the ambient aether, they intend to study the battlefield where you faced the Ultima Weapon─where She shielded you with the blessing of Light: the Praetorium. Though he knows not how such data may be put to use, Alphinaud nevertheless defers to your comrades' judgment, as well as their suggestion that you, Alphinaud, and Tataru see to the necessary preparations for the long-lost Scions' homecoming.

Surprised and pleased to see a familiar face, F'lhaminn and her companions greet you warmly and offer their apologies for not returning sooner. Eager to speak with her daughter, F'lhaminn asks after Minfilia, forcing you to divulge that she has yet to be found. Though clearly distraught, F'lhaminn does her best to remain calm and trust in the Scions to see her daughter safely home, and together you make for Revenant's Toll.

Outside the Seventh Heaven, the trio pause to take in the familiar surroundings. Though much has changed, much indeed remains the same...though who can say how they will feel once they walk through the doors of the Rising Stones?

The Rising Stones is filled with the sounds of laughter and drink as F'lhaminn, Hoary Boulder, and Coultenet drift to familiar corners to greet old friends and tell tales of adventurers in foreign lands. For some, it is as though they never left─a break in a conversation now resumed. For others, it is the promise of a new beginning─a new chapter in a larger story. Yet in the midst of all the excitement, Alphinaud and Tataru stand apart, strangely silent...

Though many delight in the homecoming of the long-lost trio, Alphinaud's thoughts remain with those who have yet to return. But Tataru, ever resilient, reassures him that all their missing comrades will be found─Minfilia, Yda, Papalymo...every last one.
</div>

>> Tataru proudly informs you that F'lhaminn, Hoary Boulder, and Coultenet--the three Scions of the Seventh Dawn forced to flee Limsa Lominsa and the Crystal Braves' betrayal--are at last <b class="text-red-500">homeward</b> bound.
>>
>
> homeward  .adv. 在归途上，向家地
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">Not to be outdone</b>, however, Krile and Thancred appear shortly thereafter, to share with the others the next step in their plan for tracking down Minfilia.
>>
>
> outdone  .v. 胜过；优于
>
> not to be outdone  为了防止别人超过自己而提前准备，采取特殊措施确保自己不会被超越或被对手出其不意
>
> * She worked hard not to be outdone by her colleagues. 她努力工作，以免被同事超越。
>
>> Theorizing that Hydaelyn's direct <b class="text-red-500">intercessio</b>n must leave a measurable impact on the <b class="text-red-500">ambient</b> aether, they intend to study the battlefield where you faced the Ultima Weapon─where She shielded you with the blessing of Light: the Praetorium.
>>
>
> intercession  .n. 调解；说情；仲裁
>
> ambient  .adj. 环境的，周围的；
>
>> Though he knows not how such data may be put to use, Alphinaud nevertheless defers to your comrades' judgment, as well as their suggestion that you, Alphinaud, and Tataru see to the necessary preparations for the long-lost Scions' homecoming.
>>
>
> defer  .v. 延期，推迟；听从，遵从（defer to）
>
>> Eager to speak with her daughter, F'lhaminn asks after Minfilia, forcing you to divulge that she has yet to be found.
>>
>
> ask after  询问某人或某事物的情况；问候某人的家人
>
>> Though clearly <b class="text-red-500">distraught</b>, F'lhaminn does her best to remain calm and trust in the Scions to see her daughter safely home, and together you make for Revenant's Toll.
>>
>
> distraught  .adj. 发狂的；心烦意乱的
>
>> Outside the Seventh Heaven, the <b class="text-red-500">trio</b> pause to <b class="text-red-500">take in</b> the familiar surroundings.
>>
>
> trio  .n. 三重唱；三件一套；三个一组
>
> take in  欣赏：观看或参观某事物以获得愉悦或满足；
>
>> Though much has changed, much indeed remains the same...though who can say how they will feel once they walk through the doors of the Rising Stones?
>>
>
>> The Rising Stones is filled with the sounds of laughter and drink as F'lhaminn, Hoary Boulder, and Coultenet <b class="text-red-500">drift to</b> familiar corners to greet old friends and tell tales of adventurers in foreign lands.
>>
>
> drift to  缓慢移动，尤其是由于外部力量的影响，没有控制方向
>
> * The boat began to drift to the shore. 船开始漂向岸边。
>
>> For some, it is as though they never left─a break in a conversation now resumed.
>>
>
> （for some就是对一些人来说的意思，后面会看到for others）
>
>> For others, it is the promise of a new beginning─a new chapter in a larger story.
>>

‍
