---
title: 25. For Those We Have Lost
---

## For Those We Have Lost🎧

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Emmanellain seems rather pleased with himself.

Lowborn Youth

-- Just imagine: an end to the violence! Doesn't the very thought fill you with joy? You'll never have to fight again!

Highborn Merchant

-- Are we truly the first, I wonder? Surely our forefathers tried to sue for peace in the past...

Spirited Stonecutter

-- Not much longer now, eh? Wonder if I could sneak off to the tavern for a pint or three.

Emmanellain

-- Oh, and this should of course go without saying, but let's keep those last few favors between us, yes? Artoirel wouldn't understand. Right, then─the first floor of those barracks has been converted into a tavern for the duration of the conference. Why don't you go and have something to eat?

Thancred

-- For once, a suggestion with which I agree. Go on ahead, Luna. I will join you anon.
</div>

>> Oh, and this should of course <b class="text-red-500">go without saying</b>, but let's keep those last few favors between us, yes?
>>
>
> go without saying 不言而喻：不需要说出来，显而易见，清楚明了或已经被确认。
>
>> Right, then─the first floor of those <b class="text-red-500">barracks</b> has been converted into a tavern for the duration of the conference.
>>
>
> barrack  .n. 营房；兵舍
>
>> For once, a suggestion with which I agree.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Earnest Maid

-- Welcome, welcome! Find yourself an empty seat, and I'll be with you in a moment.

-- Cold out, en't it? Here─a mug on the house. Let's get some color back in them cheeks!

-- 'Fraid food'll be a bit longer than usual. We've got a lot of hungry folk to feed what with the conference and all.

-- <sigh> So many people with cause to celebrate. To think there could be peace in our time, after all them years of fightin'... When I heard about the conference, I knew I had to come. I knew I had to be here─to do my bit. My husband, he...he died fighting the dragons, you see... And here we are, about to break bread with them.

-- You all right, my lover? You look tired. Reckon you could do with a good long rest. After all you've done, I'd say you've earned it.

-- Sleep, now...sleeeeeep. Sleep and leave us to our affairs.

-- This was never your fight.
</div>

>> Cold out, en't it? Here─a <b class="text-red-500">mug</b> on the house. Let's get some color back in them cheeks!
>>
>
> mug  .n. 大杯，马克杯；一大杯的容量；

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Mournful Mother

-- My son, they...they told me he walks in Halone's halls. Him and the rest of his unit.

Earnest Maid

-- ...They told me the same.

Mournful Mother

-- I expect they think it's comforting. Every time I come, I cry. I cannot bear to remember, but to forget would be a thousand times worse. Yet that is what they would have us do. Accept this truth for the sake of peace. Bury the past and look to the future. But he was my future. My flesh and blood─my heart...

Hardened Man

-- Is this it? Are we the only ones with the courage to oppose this madness? Cowards, the lot of 'em!

Bitter Knight

-- They think only of the prize─of the peace Ser Aymeric promises them. They know in their hearts it's a lie, but they go along with it anyway, desperate fools. But not I. Not I! I see the wyrm that killed my brother in my dreams every night! And I will not rest until he lies broken at my feet! Him and every last one of his accursed kin!

Hardened Man

-- All this nonsense about kings of eld. As if I care what they did or didn't do! Makes no difference to me and mine! Have the dragons sued for peace in a thousand years? Have they bollocks!

-- It's a bloody ruse is what it is! And Ser Aymeric and the rest of 'em've bloody fallen for it!

Mournful Mother

-- But what can we do? They believe, and naught we can say will ever change their minds. Whether we like it or not, man and dragon will come together at Falcon's Nest, and all will be forgiven. Forgiven and forgotten.

Earnest Maid

-- No. I will not let that happen. They will remember the true face of the enemy. I will show it to them. And we will rise up against them once more!
</div>

>> I cannot bear to remember, but to forget would be a thousand times worse.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Thancred

-- Hey! Hey! This is no time for napping! Do you have your wits about you? Good. Come with me─we have a crisis on our hands!

Earnest Maid

-- Hear me, brothers and sisters! Do not be fooled by the honeyed words of the Dravanians! The peace they promise is but a prelude to slaughter! Remember your husbands and wives, never returned from war! Your children, torn apart by fang and claw! All your loved ones, shown no mercy! Does not your heart cry out for vengeance!? Your blood boil at the injustice!? Remember the face of your enemy, brothers and sisters! Remember it and strike back!

Emmanellain

-- You there! Don't just stand around gawping! Do something, man! Stop her!

Panicked Knight

-- Yes, yes, my lord!

Earnest Maid

-- See! See here the true nature of the highborn! With lies and deception they lead us to our doom, and dare we raise our voices in dissent─death is our reward! This is the choice they have given us, brothers and sisters! Death by dragon's fang or death by nobleman's command! Death to all we hold dear! I spit on your choices, nobleman! You will take no more from me... No more! NO MORE!

Emmanellain

-- What have you done!?

Panicked Knight

-- I─ I only did as you ordered, my lord...

Emmanellain

-- I gave no such order! I did not! I...I never meant for anyone to...
</div>

>> Hey! Hey! This is no time for napping! Do you have your wits about you?
>>
>
>> The peace they promise is but a <b class="text-red-500">prelude</b> to slaughter!
>>
>
> prelude  .n. 前奏，序幕；前奏曲，序曲；（诗歌等文学作品）引子，序诗

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Highborn Merchant

-- What was that fool of a lordling thinking!? What did he think would happen!?

Lowborn Youth

-- Gods, how could I have been so foolish!? She...she was right...

Spirited Stonecutter

-- I'm still not sure what they were about. I thought they might try to destroy the relief, but...

Redwald

-- He was not wrong to want to subdue the leader as quickly as able, for she may have spurred others to further violence. But to fire on her as the crowd looked on was beyond reckless.

Tourcent

-- It wasn't just young ones struggling with the guards. Older folk attacked them as well, screaming bloody murder...

Auriaune

-- This was to be the end of it. Casualties at a peace conference, Fury take me...

Emerissel

-- She seemed like such a nice girl. Always greeted me with a smile when she passed. Never would've guessed she had it in her.

Noirterel

-- Pray forgive me, my lady. It's been chaos since preparations for the conference began, and I needed all the help I could get, and...and... How was I to know!? I only realized what had happened after we inspected the mug. Master Thancred tells me it was a sleeping agent of some sort...

Rothe

-- Seven hells, the least he could've done is stop the bloody fool before he shot the second arrow!

Ingaret

-- You should've seen the looks on their faces as they left. There's no fixing this.
</div>

>> Thancred tells me it was a sleeping <b class="text-red-500">agent</b> of some sort...
>>
>
> agent 有 “剂”的意思

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Thancred

-- I daresay that could not have played out any worse, given that the first commander and Lord Artoirel are not here to take control of the situation. I spoke with a messenger who said that they would be returning shortly, but until they do, naught will be done. Lord Emmanellain has retreated to the barracks and is refusing to speak to anyone. Therefore it falls to us to ensure that order has been fully restored. Come, let us walk the streets and speak with the people.

Highborn Merchant

-- My wife and I fell while fleeing with the others at first. The chirurgeons tended to our bruises afterwards. <sigh> Those mad fools have ruined everything, and for what?

-- I will never forgive them for this. Never!

Spirited Stonecutter

-- I'd heard the rumors that the young lord was a drunken fool. What imbecile thought it would be a good idea to let him have the run of Falcon's Nest!? Well, I say him and Ser Aymeric take their bloody “change” and shove it up their arses. I'll not be taken in by that rot again.

-- She's right, you know. We're naught but tools to them, to be used and discarded as they see fit. We all saw it.

Thancred

-- So far, it would seem that the worst has passed...

Josseloux

-- They were wrong to resort to violence, but when I heard her speak, her words were as a dagger in my heart. Who are we to decide that enough is enough? That their calls for justice can never be answered? Will this be the end of it, or will there be others like them and the True Brothers? I do not want to bear steel against my kinsman ever again. I do not know if I even can...

-- I'm tired of it. I'm just so tired of it all.

Thancred

-- Well? What say you?

-- So, the violence has passed, but the people are far from recovered. That is to be expected. For the moment, it appears that no innocents were harmed by the guards. The blame for all casualties can be placed squarely upon the protesters. Nevertheless, the people will not soon forget the image of a young lordling ordering the public execution of an unarmed protester─one whose words resonated with the hearts of many. After all, who among us has not lost loved ones...
</div>

>> I daresay that could not have <b class="text-red-500">played out</b> any worse, given that the first commander and Lord Artoirel are not here to take control of the situation.
>>
>
> play out    表演到结束；用完；展开；耗尽；发展
>
> * Let's see how this situation will play out. 让我们看看这种情况会如何发展。
>
>> The chirurgeons tended to our <b class="text-red-500">bruises</b> afterwards.
>>
>
> bruise  .n. 青瘀，伤痕；（水果或蔬菜的）碰伤
>
>> Well, I say him and Ser Aymeric take their bloody “change” and <b class="text-red-500">shove it up</b> their arses. I'll not <b class="text-red-500">be taken in</b> by that <b class="text-red-500">rot</b> again.
>>
>
> shove up  为给别人腾出位置而移动身体
>
> * Shove up a bit so that I can sit down. 给我腾出位置，我也要坐下。
>
> rot   .n. 腐烂，腐烂物；
>
> be taken in  被骗：被欺骗或被骗取。
>
>> They were wrong to <b class="text-red-500">resort to</b> violence, but when I heard her speak, her words were as a dagger in my heart.
>>
>
> resort to 求助于，诉诸于：采取某种行动或使用某种方法，尤其是因为没有其他选择。
>
>> The blame for all casualties can be placed <b class="text-red-500">squarely</b> upon the protesters.
>>
>
> squarely  .adv. 直角地；诚实地；正好；干脆地；正当地

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Per Lord Emmanellain's suggestion, you decide to partake of the food and drink in the nearby tavern. Desiring privacy, you opt for a secluded seat in the corner, and drink deep from a mug of mulled wine provided by a young waitress. You find yourself listening half-heartedly as she speaks of this and that...your eyes growing heavy, your limbs sapped of all strength. She turns, and through the haze you see her eyes, burning with contempt. You crumple to the ground, and as all fades to black, you hear her whisper to sleep, to sleep...

A grave, and a woman. No─two women, and a man. Countless graves, countless lives lost. A war that would never end, no─not for them. They came together, unwilling and unable to forgive, to forget. They learned of the conference and despaired...until she stepped forward. For she had a plan.

Thancred rouses you from your slumber, and from beyond the tavern doors you can hear the faint sounds of fighting. Bursting forth, you find chaos. Soldiers and civilians─some whom you recognize from your vision─lie dead and dying. From atop a wall she calls out. The woman from the tavern─from your vision. She cries out for vengeance against the Dravanians, and Emmanellain, in a panic, commands a nearby knight to act. As the crowd looks on, the knight shoots, striking her in the arm. Wounded and enraged, she decries the lordling and all for which he stands, before a second arrow silences her, and she falls from sight. All eyes turn to the young lord as he pleads his innocence, that all was a misunderstanding. But you know full well that it is too late for excuses.

In the wake of the failed protest, Lord Emmanellain retreats to the tavern, leaving you and Thancred to ensure that order has been fully restored. But, more importantly, having witnessed such a heavy-handed suppression, how will the people regard Ser Aymeric's efforts to ensure peace now?

You quickly ascertain that the people are uneasy and divided, harboring resentment towards the protesters, Lord Emmanellain, and even Ser Aymeric. Though there appears to be no risk of further violence, the peace conference clearly has no chance of success in this climate.

Thancred informs you that, for a mercy, the guards do not appear to have been responsible for any civilian casualties. Nevertheless, he agrees with your assessment. Misguided though her actions may have been, the protest leader's words resonated with many who have lost loved ones, as Thancred quietly observes...
</div>

>> Desiring privacy, you opt for a <b class="text-red-500">secluded</b> seat in the corner, and drink deep from a mug of mulled wine provided by a young waitress.
>>
>
> secluded  .adj. 隐蔽的；隐退的，隐居的
>
>> You find yourself listening half-heartedly as she speaks of this and that...your eyes growing heavy, your limbs sapped of all strength.
>>
>
>> She turns, and through the <b class="text-red-500">haze</b> you see her eyes, burning with contempt.
>>
>
> haze  .n. 霾，烟雾；懵懂，迷糊
>
>> You <b class="text-red-500">crumple</b> to the ground, and as all fades to black, you hear her whisper to sleep, to sleep...
>>
>
> crumple  起皱；倒坍；一蹶不振
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">Bursting forth</b>, you find chaos.
>>
>
> Burst forth  爆发出来：突然、猛烈地出现或发生。
>
> * The sun burst forth from behind the clouds. 太阳从云层后面突然冒出来。
>
>> All eyes turn to the young lord as he <b class="text-red-500">pleads</b> his innocence, that all was a misunderstanding.
>>
>
> plead  .v. 恳求，乞求；极力主张，极力为……辩护；（在法庭）申辩，认罪；（向法庭）陈述案情；以……为理由，提出……作借口
>
>> But, more importantly, having witnessed such a heavy-handed suppression, how will the people regard Ser Aymeric's efforts to ensure peace now?
>>

## Consequences🎧

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Thancred would like nothing more than to leave Falcon's Nest behind.

Lowborn Youth

-- We cannot dishonor their memory. We must remember why they fought and died.

Highborn Merchant

-- You were there, were you not? Then you must have seen it in the people's eyes. Not even Ser Aymeric could convince them to return.

Spirited Stonecutter

-- The hells with them blue bloods. Can't believe I thought they might give half a damn about us. You can bet I won't be making that mistake again.

Thancred

-- Lord Artoirel and the first commander should have returned by now. To the tavern, then. Their first order of business will be to speak with Lord Emmanellain, and I somehow doubt that he has moved an ilm since last we saw him.

Artoirel

-- Fury take me, what a disaster... I should never have left.

Lucia

-- My apologies, Luna. I bear full responsibility for this...debacle. 

Thancred

-- There will be time for that later. I, for one, am more concerned about picking up the pieces. What do we know?

Lucia

-- According to initial reports, the protest was orchestrated by the young woman whom Lord Emmanellain ordered shot. She and her conspirators infiltrated Falcon's Nest posing as servants and guests. Several were taken alive. Others resisted and were struck down. Still others took their own lives. Our forces suffered casualties as well, but by the grace of the Fury, no civilians were seriously injured. Still more remarkably, the ringleader yet lives─for the time being, at least. The chirurgeons are doing what they can for her, but she may not live through the night.

Artoirel

-- Given their impeccable timing, it is like that the Convictors who drew us away from the hamlet were in league with the protesters. Accordingly, we have detained them for questioning. <sigh> I'll be sworn that these villains spent as much effort plotting the failure of this peace conference as we did its success.

Thancred

-- Well, if the mood of the hamlet is any indication, theirs have been the more fruitful labors. In the wake of the protest, the people seem disillusioned.

Lucia

-- You spoke with them, then? I see... ...Ser Aymeric placed his trust in me. It will be difficult to explain what has happened here.

Artoirel

-- Remember how far we have come, First Commander. The people's faith may be shaken, but we convinced them before, and will do so again. If we can but find a means to remind them─to show them once more the promise that change holds for all─then this tragedy too shall pass into the past.

Lucia

-- We must pray that you are right. Nevertheless, for the time being, I have no choice but to suspend the peace conference, pending Ser Aymeric's final decision.

-- Under the circumstances, I cannot leave Falcon's Nest. Luna, will you deliver my report to the lord commander in my stead?

Artoirel

-- Get up, Emmanellain. You're going with her.

Emmanellain

-- Go on without me.

Artoirel

-- ...I was not asking. You will answer for your actions. In person. Is that clear?

Emmanellain

-- ...Yes, my lord. Come, Honoroit.

Thancred

-- Your manservant is not here. In fact, I have not seen him for some time...

Emmanellain

-- Honoroit...? Honoroit! I could have sworn he was...
</div>

>> I bear full responsibility for this...<b class="text-red-500">debacle</b>.
>>
>
> debacle  .n. 崩溃；灾害；解冻
>
>> I, for one, am more concerned about <b class="text-red-500">picking up the pieces</b>. What do we know?
>>
>
> pick up the pieces  振作起来：在发生不好的事情后，尝试让情况变得更好。
>
> * After the accident, it took her a while to pick up the pieces and move on. 事故发生后，她花了一段时间才振作起来，继续前行。
>
>> Several were <b class="text-red-500">taken alive</b>. Others resisted and were struck down. Still others <b class="text-red-500">took their own lives</b>.
>>
>
> be taken alive  被活捉：指某人或某动物被捕获或俘虏时仍然活着。
>
> * The criminal was taken alive by the police. 罪犯被警方活捉。
>
> take their own lives  自杀
>
>> Still more remarkably, the <b class="text-red-500">ringleader</b> yet lives─for the time being, at least.
>>
>
> ringleader  .n. 罪魁祸首；元凶
>
>> Given their <b class="text-red-500">impeccable</b> timing, it is like that the Convictors who drew us away from the hamlet were <b class="text-red-500">in league with</b> the protesters.
>>
>
> impeccable  .adj. 无瑕疵的，没有缺点的；
>
> in league with   与……联盟：与某人或某事物合作或勾结，通常指不道德或不合法的行为。
>
> * The corrupt official was in league with the drug traffickers. 那个腐败的官员与毒贩勾结。
>
>> Well, if the mood of the hamlet is any indication, theirs have been the more fruitful labors.
>>
>
> indication  .n. 指示，标示；象征，暗示，迹象
>
>> In the wake of the protest, the people seem <b class="text-red-500">disillusioned</b>.
>>
>
> disillusioned  .adj. 醒悟的；幻想破灭的；不抱幻想的
>
>> If we can but find a means to remind them─to show them once more the promise that change holds for all─then this tragedy too shall pass into the past.
>>
>
>> Nevertheless, for the time being, I have no choice but to suspend the peace conference, pending Ser Aymeric's final decision.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Lucia

-- Once I have determined that my presence is no longer required, I will return to the capital as well. Pray give my regards to the lord commander.

Artoirel

-- I too had best remain here for a time. I should hope that the worst has passed, but it is too early to say for certain.

Thancred

-- Odd. The boy struck me as the rather devoted type. What reason would he have to leave his master unattended for so long?

Emmanellain

-- Where are you, where are you...!?
</div>

>> I should hope that the worst has passed, but it is too early to say for certain.
>>
>
>> The boy struck me as the rather devoted type. What reason would he have to leave his master unattended for so long?
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Emmanellain

-- Honoroit!

-- No, no! What have they done to you!? Honoroit! Honoroit!

Honoroit

-- Is that you, my lord? You...you seem rather flustered.

Emmanellain

-- Because of you, you imbecile! What in the seven hells happened to you!?

Honoroit

-- My...my apologies... Some few of the guests expressed a wish to leave...and I implored them to stay. It would seem they took issue with my request.

Emmanellain

-- Gods forgive me... If I had only been more careful with my words!

Honoroit

-- D-Do not blame yourself, my lord... I know... I know that you and your brother have Ishgard's best interests at heart. That poor woman... She lives in the past, clinging to the memories of the lost. But the future holds so much promise. So much joy. And you...you know that better than any...

Emmanellain

-- Honoroit!?

Thancred

-- Calm yourself. The boy will live. But it's imperative we get him inside and into the care of a chirurgeon without delay.

Emmanellain

-- Gah! We were so close! Why does it all have to fall to pieces!? Don't they want to live in peace!? Don't they want to be happy!? We all want the same thing, and still─STILL it falls to pieces! Tell me: what─what was I supposed to do, hm!? Someone, anyone, tell me: what was I supposed to do!?

Thancred

-- Stop looking to others. You make your choice and you live with the consequences.

Emmanellain

-- And what would you know about consequences!? You who always know just what to say, and just what to do! Your every deed is greeted with a round of applause!

Thancred

-- You know nothing about me. I have fought tooth and nail for the people I hold dear─done everything in my power to save them...and I have failed. Learn to live with it. I have.
</div>

>> You...you seem rather <b class="text-red-500">flustered</b>.
>>
>
> fluster  .v.（使）忙乱，紧张；（使）心烦意乱

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Emmanellain

-- I will take him to the chirurgeons! It is...it is the least I can do.

Thancred

-- ...I may have overreacted. But it needed to be done. He was becoming hysterical. I understand the desire to look for reasons. For excuses. To convince yourself you had no choice. But the past is the past, and there is naught to be gained from reliving your mistakes. I know this. I know this. But he...
</div>

>> He was becoming <b class="text-red-500">hysterical</b>.
>>
>
> hysterical  .adj. 歇斯底里的，异常兴奋的；
>
>> But the past is the past, and there is naught to be gained from reliving your mistakes. I know this. I know this.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Recalling that Lord Artoirel and the first commander should have returned by now, Thancred makes for the tavern where Lord Emmanellain has taken shelter. Under the circumstances, he doubts very much that the lordling has left─and that the other two will surely wish to have words.

With tired eyes, Lucia briefs you on the latest developments, aided by a grim-faced Lord Artoirel. They reveal that the incident at the Convictory was more than likely a ruse intended to draw them away from the hamlet, and that the protest leader, while gravely wounded, yet lives. Their report concluded, you share your own assessment─that while order was restored, the people's faith in Ser Aymeric and his initiative has been gravely shaken. Head bowed, Lucia solemnly acknowledges that she has no choice but to call a halt to proceedings. Lord Artoirel duly orders his brother to return to Ishgard and answer for his actions, and he sullenly acquiesces, calling for his manservant to accompany him. Honoroit, however, is nowhere to be seen. Rising to his feet in a panic, Emmanellain casts about for the missing boy, before dashing outside to search for him.

You come upon a badly beaten Honoroit at the airship landing, moments before Thancred and Lord Emmanellain arrive. As the lordling calls out to the young boy, he opens his eyes, explaining that he attempted to dissuade the smallfolk from leaving─a request which invited violent reprisal from those who resented Lord Emmanellain for his role in ending the protest. After offering some words of comfort, the child's eyes close once more, prompting his master to loudly bemoan the circumstances of his failure. His continued refusal to accept responsibility grates your ears, and you step forward to speak─only to be stopped by Thancred, who proceeds to scold Emmanellain himself. Overcome with rage at the unflappable Archon's lecturing, the lordling unwisely lashes out, declaring that the man has never felt the sting of failure. Thancred, in turn, deals Lord Emmanellain a swingeing blow, snarling that he knows nothing of him and his failures. With that, he storms off, leaving the lordling to nurse his rapidly swelling jaw.

Thankfully, Thancred has regained his composure for the most part when you find him. Though he admits he may have overreacted, he does not regret his actions, for he knows from personal experience that there is little to be gained from refusing to acknowledge your mistakes. Such is the reason he offers as explanation for his behavior, but you cannot help wondering if he is being honest with you─or with himself.
</div>

>> Recalling that Lord Artoirel and the first commander should have returned by now, Thancred makes for the tavern where Lord Emmanellain has taken shelter.
>>
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">Head bowed</b>, Lucia <b class="text-red-500">solemnly</b> acknowledges that she has no choice but to <b class="text-red-500">call a halt</b> to proceedings.
>>
>
> Head bowed  低头：指头部向下弯曲，通常表示沉思、悲伤、羞愧等情感。
>
> * He walked into the church with his head bowed. 他低着头走进了教堂。
>
> solemnly  .adv. 庄严地；严肃地
>
> call a halt 强制（某事物）停止
>
> * The government decided to call a halt to the construction project due to environmental concerns. 政府因环境问题决定强制停止建设项目。
>
>> Rising to his feet in a panic, Emmanellain <b class="text-red-500">casts about</b> for the missing boy, before dashing outside to search for him.
>>
>
> cast about  四处张望，寻找；制定计划，筹划
>
> * He cast about for a solution to the problem. 他四处寻找解决问题的办法。
>
>> As the lordling calls out to the young boy, he opens his eyes, explaining that he attempted to dissuade the smallfolk from leaving--a request which invited violent <b class="text-red-500">reprisal</b> from those who resented Lord Emmanellain for his role in ending the protest.
>>
>
> reprisal  .n. 报复（行为）；报复性劫掠
>
>> After offering some words of comfort, the child's eyes close once more, prompting his master to loudly <b class="text-red-500">bemoan</b> the circumstances of his failure.
>>
>
> bemoan  .v. 惋惜；为……恸哭
>
>> His continued refusal to accept responsibility grates your ears, and you step forward to speak─only to be stopped by Thancred, who proceeds to scold Emmanellain himself.
>>
>
>> Overcome with rage at the <b class="text-red-500">unflappable</b> Archon's lecturing, the lordling unwisely <b class="text-red-500">lashes out</b>, declaring that the man has never felt the sting of failure.
>>
>
> unflappable .adj. 镇定的，不慌张的
>
> lash out  猛击，猛踢；严厉斥责
>
>> Thancred, in turn, deals Lord Emmanellain a <b class="text-red-500">swingeing</b> blow, <b class="text-red-500">snarling</b> that he knows nothing of him and his failures.
>>
>
> swingeing  .adj. 激烈的；极好的；严厉的
>
> snarl  .v. 龇牙狂吠；咆哮着说；
>
>> With that, he <b class="text-red-500">storms off</b>, leaving the lordling to nurse his rapidly swelling jaw.
>>
>
> storm off 愤然离开
>
>> Thankfully, Thancred has regained his composure for the most part when you find him.
>>
>
>> Though he admits he may have overreacted, he does not regret his actions, for he knows from personal experience that there is little to be gained from refusing to acknowledge your mistakes.
>>

## Choices🎧

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Thancred has lost all patience with Lord Emmanellain.

Thancred

-- I have no desire to wait for the lordling to emerge from his puddle of self-pity. We have important matters to attend to in Ishgard.

Lucia

-- I will return to the capital as soon as I am able. Go, there is no need for you to remain.

Artoirel

-- I heard what happened. You need not wait for Emmanellain and Honoroit.
</div>

>> I have no desire to wait for the lordling to emerge from his <b class="text-red-500">puddle</b> of self-pity.
>>
>
> puddle  .n.（尤指雨水积成的）水坑，泥潭；胶土（用黏土、沙和水而成，用来助堤坝防水）；（划桨激起的）漩涡

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Temple Knight Guard

-- You are expected, miss. Pray proceed.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- We received troubling reports from Falcon's Nest. What befell you there?

Aymeric

-- Word of the demonstration and its resolution outstripped you, Luna. Every man, woman, and child of Ishgard has heard the tale. 'Tis rumored that my youngest's lack of judgment was to blame. Of course...such stories are prone to exaggeration. What exactly came to pass?

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- ...I see. So that is the truth of it. Regardless of his intent, the result is undeniable. He has furthered the cause of these misguided few who cannot let go of the past. In an instant, the delicate peace we were poised to forge is once more beyond us.

Aymeric

-- To dwell so deeply on the war and the vengeance it begets, only for that too to be taken away─is it any wonder that they were left bereft? For what was this sacrifice? Have we naught to show for our suffering? I thought peace a sufficient salve, but mayhap I was mistaken. We are warriors, Lord Edmont, and ours is a nation built on centuries of warfare. Right or wrong, this is who we are, and we deny it at our peril. To hold on to the past, without being beholden to it... Aye, we must needs find a way to honor the sacrifice of our forefathers without glorying in their excesses.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- A difficult path, to be sure. We dare not deny the scars which mar our nation's soul, lest we spur other disillusioned souls to retrace them... ...But, as you say, we dare not revel in past glories either, for they are tainted all. A clear, unambiguous enemy, and an undeniably righteous cause... 'Tis a bitter reflection, but lies though they were, they did long serve to unite us.

Aymeric

-- No truth will ever serve as well, I fear. Yet...we are not without options.

-- At our last meeting, a proposal was tabled by the other members of the Eorzean Alliance for joint military exercises─to strengthen the ties between our nations, and test our readiness to meet with a common threat. I had thought to delay these exercises until after the peace conference, but mayhap a grand melee would be just the thing to lift our beleaguered spirits.

-- Better still, an occasion for the Temple Knights and the watch to take the field as allies─a unified Ishgardian force filled with men and women from all walks of life, which would stand against a coalition of the allied nations' finest! Hosted by Ishgard, in the shadow of the Gates of Judgement! A victory under such circumstances would serve as a reaffirmation─nay, a declaration to all and sundry that we are as strong and united as ever!

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- Such a victory would do much to fan the flames of patriotism, it is true. But if we should be defeated...? Though...even to hold our own against the cream of three nations might be presented as a triumph... Very well. You may count on my support, for what little it is worth. However, I have a request: I would have my son Emmanellain take part in the grand melee. By his deeds has he brought shame upon Ishgard, and so by his deeds I would have him bring our nation honor.

Aymeric

-- ...As you wish, my lord. If that is his desire, then it shall be so.

-- Now then, we have no time to lose. Luna, would you be so kind as to deliver my instructions to Lucia? I shall write to the Alliance leaders at once and begin making arrangements for the grand melee.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- Should you chance to see my son, pray inform him of his duty. If he has not already returned, he will soon enough─making every effort to avoid me.

Aymeric

-- Pray excuse me, Luna. I have missives to write.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- <sigh> I know my son. He will do his utmost to avoid me. See that he does not avoid you.
</div>

>> Word of the <b class="text-red-500">demonstration</b> and its resolution outstripped you, Luna.
>>
>
> outstrip  .v. 超过；胜过；比……跑得快
>
> demonstration  .n. 演示，展示；游行，示威；证实；表达，表露
>
>> 'Tis rumored that my youngest's lack of judgment was to blame.
>>
>
>> Of course...such stories are prone to exaggeration. What exactly came to pass?
>>
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">In an instant</b>, the <b class="text-red-500">delicate</b> peace we were poised to forge is once more beyond us.
>>
>
> In an instant  立刻，瞬间：表示某事发生得非常快，几乎是瞬间完成的。
>
> * In an instant, the car disappeared around the corner. 车子在瞬间消失在拐角处。
>
> delicate  .adj. 柔和的，清淡的；虚弱的，纤弱的；脆弱的，易碎的；小巧玲珑的，纤细的；微妙的，棘手的；精致的，精巧的；
>
>> To dwell so deeply on the war and the vengeance it <b class="text-red-500">begets</b>, only for that too to be taken away─is it any wonder that they were left bereft? ​#ConfusingEnglish#​
>>
>
> beget  .v. 产生；招致；引起；当……的父亲
>
>> Right or wrong, this is who we are, and we deny it <b class="text-red-500">at our peril</b>.
>>
>
> at our peril  冒着危险：表示做某事会带来严重后果或危险。
>
> · We ignore the warnings at our peril.
>
> 我们忽视警告就是冒着危险。
>
>> We dare not deny the scars which mar our nation's soul, lest we <b class="text-red-500">spur</b> other disillusioned souls to retrace them...
>>
>
> spur  .v. 激励，鼓励；促进，加速，刺激（某事发生）；用马刺策（马）前进；紧贴主干剪短（副梢）
>
>> ...But, as you say, we dare not <b class="text-red-500">revel</b> in past glories either, for they are tainted all.
>>
>
> revel  .v. 狂欢；陶醉
>
>> At our last meeting, a proposal was tabled by the other members of the Eorzean Alliance for <b class="text-red-500">joint</b> military exercises─to strengthen the ties between our nations, and test our readiness to meet with a common threat.
>>
>
> joint  .adj. 联合的，共同的，共有的；连带的
>
>> I had thought to delay these exercises until after the peace conference, but mayhap a grand melee would be just the thing to lift our <b class="text-red-500">beleaguered</b> spirits.
>>
>
> beleaguer  .v.  包围，围攻；使处于困境，困扰
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">Better still</b>, an occasion for the Temple Knights and <b class="text-red-500">the watch</b> to take the field as allies─a unified Ishgardian force filled with men and women from all walks of life, which would stand against a <b class="text-red-500">coalition</b> of the allied nations' finest!
>>
>
> Better still   更好的是：用于表示某个选择更加令人满意。
>
> * You could take the train, or better still, drive there yourself. 你可以坐火车，更好的是，自己开车去。
>
> （the watch这里应该指的是希尔达一行人）
>
> coalition   .n. 联合政府；联合体，联盟；联合，结合
>
>> Such a victory would do much to fan the flames of patriotism, it is true.
>>
>
>> Though...even to <b class="text-red-500">hold our own</b> against <b class="text-red-500">the cream of</b> three nations might be presented as a triumph...
>>
>
> the cream of   精华；最佳部分
>
> * The art exhibition showcased the cream of contemporary artists. 这次艺术展览展示了当代艺术家的精华。
>
> hold our own   保持自己的地位或竞争力：在某种情况下，能够与其他人或组织相媲美并保持自己的地位或竞争力。
>
> * Despite the fierce competition, our company managed to hold our own in the market. 尽管竞争激烈，我们公司仍然在市场上保持了自己的地位。

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Lucia

-- Forgive me, Luna. I arrived but a moment ago, and must needs unpack my things. We will speak anon.

Thancred

-- So that is their solution. A “grand melee” to unite the people... And what part would they have you play in this affair, I wonder. You, whom they have taken into their confidence, upon whom they have come so heavily to rely. And will you oblige them, when the proposition is made? Will you stand for Ishgard once more?

Me

-- (Option 1) We have come this far, have we not?
-- (Option 2) I will stand for my friends and comrades, not a nation.
-- (Option 3) It is getting to be a bit much, isn't it...

Thancred

-- (In response to 1) Well, when you put it like that, I suppose it would be a shame not to see it through to the bitter end.
-- (In response to 2) A poor choice of words. For friends tried and true, then. The living and the lost.
-- (In response to 3) You say that, and yet here you are. Here we are. This is, after all, the life we chose. In any event, let us not forget that the Ascians sought to profit from this war. To put an end to it is to put an end to their plot, and that, my friend, is ever a worthy cause.

-- So, for this grand melee of his, Ser Aymeric wishes to field a force comprising both his Temple Knights and Hilda's watch, yes? I can only imagine what she will have to say about that. In fact, curiosity compels me to go and see for myself.

Hilda

-- ...Because of course he had to deliver the news in person, eh?

Symme

-- Huzzah! We've been spoiling for a fight! We won't let Ser Aymeric down, you'll see!

Eudestand

-- (Bloody fool doesn't realize he'll have to sit this one out. If all the watch ran off with Ser Aymeric to play soldier, who'd be left to keep an eye on things here?)

Thancred

-- Hm? I thought you had something to discuss with the first commander?

Lucia

-- Well met, Luna. Have you spoken with Ser Aymeric?

-- ...I was aware of the Alliance's request. So─Ser Aymeric would turn these exercises into a spectacle for the masses. It is not that I doubt the efficacy of such a plan. Indeed, I know its effectiveness only too well, having witnessed it firsthand... Nevertheless, he has not once given me reason to doubt his intentions─and these are desperate times indeed. I will select knights for the event forthwith. As for the watch─

-- ...Did he now? How considerate of Master Thancred to seek out our young watch commander of his own volition. Alas, he acted prematurely. Pray deliver this list of watch candidates to Hilda. I would have her best men, not her most dispensable.

-- Forgive me, but I have much to do. Send Hilda my regards.

Letter to Hilda (Item)

-- Correspondence from Lucia, addressed to Hilda.

Hilda

-- Thancred's been tellin' me all about Ser Aymeric's grand soirée. Seems we're expected to join in. It's nice of him to invite us and all, but I hope he knows what he's doin'─'cause we ain't dressed to dance with professional bleedin' soldiers.

-- ...Well, well─seems the first commander's gone and handpicked her guests. Can't say I disagree with her choices, though. She's got a good eye. Will you be fightin' too? Reckon it'd inspire the lads if you were. Might take their minds off gettin' their hides tanned, and all. Think about it, eh?

Thancred

-- I hate to ask, but you haven't seen our favorite lordling, have you? <sigh> I thought not. On the assumption that he is not to be found in his father's loving embrace, I suggest we split up and look for him. I will search Foundation, and you the Pillars.

-- ...Do not look at me like that. I will begin my search in due time.

Hilda

-- I still can't believe he actually hit the daft bastard. Gods, I wish I'd been there to see it!
</div>

>> I arrived but a moment ago, and must needs unpack my things.
>>
>
>> And will you oblige them, when the <b class="text-red-500">proposition</b> is made?
>>
>
> proposition  .n. 主张，观点；（尤指商业或政治上的）提议，建议；（美国的）法律修正案；欲做的事，待处理的问题；
>
>> It is getting to be <b class="text-red-500">a bit much</b>, isn't it...
>>
>
> a bit much   有些过分：形容某种不合理或过分的行为，超过了合理的程度。
>
> · His demands are a bit much, don't you think?
>
> 他的要求有些过分，你觉得呢？
>
>> Ser Aymeric wishes to field a force comprising both his Temple Knights and Hilda's watch, yes?
>>
>
>> In fact, curiosity compels me to go and see for myself.
>>
>
>> We've been spoiling for a fight! We won't let Ser Aymeric down, you'll see!
>>
>
>> Bloody fool doesn't realize he'll have to <b class="text-red-500">sit this one out</b>.
>>
>
> sit out  退出；放弃参与；不参与某个活动或决策。
>
> * I'm feeling a bit tired, I think I'll **sit this one out**. 我感觉有点累，我想退出这个活动。
> * She decided to **sit out** the game and watch from the sidelines. 她决定不参与比赛，从场边观看。
>
>> How <b class="text-red-500">considerate</b> of Master Thancred to seek out our young watch commander of his own <b class="text-red-500">volition</b>.
>>
>
> considerate  .adj. 体贴的，考虑周到的；<旧>小心的，谨慎的
>
> volition  .n. 意志，意志力；决断力
>
>> Thancred's been tellin' me all about Ser Aymeric's grand <b class="text-red-500">soirée</b>.
>>
>
> soirée  晚会
>
> soiree  .n.（法）晚会；社交聚会；黄昏时的聚会
>
>> Reckon it'd inspire the lads if you were. Might take their minds off gettin' their hides tanned, and all.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Emmanellain

-- ...I carried Honoroit to the manor. Our best chirurgeons are tending to him as we speak. He has yet to wake, but surely...surely he will.

-- So Father has volunteered me for this “grand melee” of theirs? <sigh> My beloved family. Always making my decisions for me.

(I stared him angerily)

-- No, it's not like that! It's just... Oh, you wouldn't understand. How could you? You are free to be the woman you want to be, whereas I...I... I am a son of House Fortemps, don't you see? My future was determined before I was born. What I could and could not do. Right or wrong, that was the way of it─until the old order began to crumble. Now we wander amidst the rubble, searching for a purpose, for a place... All around me, brave men and women rise to the occasion. With faith and conviction they dedicate themselves to their causes. But not I. I was terrified of making the wrong choice, which is why I let better men make them for me. Do this, do that, take this duty, guard this conference─I suppose I had convinced myself I was above it...until your friend showed me otherwise. When I saw Honoroit, I wanted to scream. I wanted someone to blame! But, in the end, there was only me. Only me. So you see, I cannot meekly bow my head and accept Father's command. Such cowardice is what brought me to this point. I will go to Ser Aymeric, and I will make my own decision.
</div>

>> All around me, brave men and women <b class="text-red-500">rise to the occasion</b>.
>>
>
> rise to the occasion  应对困难：在应对困难的情况下，付出特别的努力以成功地处理问题。
>
> * When faced with a difficult situation, it's important to rise to the occasion and do your best. 面对困难情况时，重要的是要应对困难，尽力而为。

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Thancred

-- Found him, did you?

Emmanellain

-- No more excuses. This will be my choice, and mine alone.

Lucia

-- Hilda did not object to my selections, then? Good.

Temple Knight Guard

-- The lord commander is not to be disturbed. May I ask what matter demands his personal attention?

-- ...I see. Very well─you may enter.
</div>

>> The lord commander is not to be disturbed. May I ask what matter demands his personal attention?
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Emmanellain

-- Lord Commander, if I may. I wished to speak with you before the grand melee.

Aymeric

-- Proceed.

Emmanellain

-- How do you do it, my lord? How do you lead with such certainty when so many of our countrymen will not hear of peace with the Dravanians? Some of them hate you almost as much as the dragons themselves. They decry you as a patricide in the streets. They even tried to kill you, for gods' sakes! Yet still you march on, undaunted, where no archbishop dared to tread. What is your secret? Where do you find the strength?

Aymeric

-- For centuries, our nation has been punished for the sins of our forefathers. If our punishment is to end, I believe we must right the wrongs of antiquity and move forward as a nation united. Needless to say, my father did not share this opinion. He did not believe the people strong enough to bring about their own deliverance, trusting only in himself. Tyranny seemed to him the only solution. But I have faith in the people, Lord Emmanellain. I have faith that they will weather this storm, and overcome every trial we set before them. Many have fought and died to see this blight upon our nation's history cleansed, and I would not let their sacrifices be in vain. Though we invite reprisals, the risk is worth the reward.

Emmanellain

-- I want to believe...I do...

-- Lord Commander─through my careless orders, a pall has been cast over these proceedings, and I beg the opportunity to make amends. I, Emmanellain de Fortemps, do hereby request leave to take part in the grand melee!

Aymeric

-- Who am I to deny such a heartfelt plea? We would be honored to have you join the fray, my lord.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- You will take charge of the Ishgardian forces?

Aymeric

-- For all my other responsibilities, I am still lord commander of the Temple Knights, and I would not soon yield this duty to another.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- The esteemed Ser Aymeric, leading the Temple Knights and the watch into battle, along with my youngest. I could wish for no more.

Aymeric

-- Then you wish for too little, my lord! There is another who might yet join the fray. An indispensable ally to whom we owe much and more.

-- An adventurer beholden to none, who nevertheless chose to champion our cause. Who has shared in our suffering, and in our glory. A warrior without equal, whom I am privileged to call a friend. There is no one I would rather have fighting by my side. I ask this in full knowledge of your obligations, and will not think less of you should you refuse. But if your conscience will allow it, might you oblige me, my friend? One more time?

-- Ha! Together, we shall give the people a spectacle for the ages─a celebration to mark the dawning of a new era!
</div>

>> How do you lead with such certainty when so many of our countrymen will not hear of peace with the Dravanians?
>>
>
>> He did not believe the people strong enough to bring about their own <b class="text-red-500">deliverance</b>, trusting only in himself.
>>
>
> deliverance  .n. 释放，解救；救助；判决
>
>> I have faith that they will weather this storm, and overcome every trial we set before them.
>>
>
>> Though we invite reprisals, the risk is worth the reward.
>>
>
>> Lord Commander─through my careless orders, a <b class="text-red-500">pall</b> has been cast over these proceedings, and I beg the opportunity to make amends.
>>
>
> pall  .n. 幕；棺罩；遮盖物
>
>> An adventurer <b class="text-red-500">beholden</b> to none, who nevertheless chose to champion our cause.
>>
>
> beholden  .adj. 负有义务的；蒙恩的；对……表示感谢的
>
>> A warrior without equal, whom I am <b class="text-red-500">privileged</b> to call a friend.
>>
>
> privilege  .v. <正式>授予……以特权；给予特权，特别优待
>
>> I ask this in full knowledge of your obligations, and will not think less of you should you refuse.
>>
>
>> But if your conscience will allow it, might you oblige me, my friend? One more time?
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Lucia

-- We would not have come this far were it not for you, Luna. It has been an honor and a privilege.

Thancred

-- Gods help me, I think it might be love. I daresay it might be cheating, too. Your mere presence is enough to turn the tide of most battles. And did you see the way his eyes lit up when you nodded? 'Twas a look of boundless relief and joy. One would think a politician more practiced at concealing his emotion. Still, his honesty does him credit. For a moment, I was fair inspired to pledge myself to the cause. But that would be improper. This is their fight─and yours─but not mine.

-- Mayhap I ought to fight for the other side─you know, even the odds.
</div>

>> And did you see the way his eyes lit up when you nodded? 'Twas a look of boundless relief and joy.
>>
>
>> One would think a politician more <b class="text-red-500">practiced at</b> concealing his emotion.
>>
>
> practiced at   擅长于：指某人在某个领域或某项技能上有很高的熟练度和经验。
>
> * He is practiced at playing the piano. 他擅长弹钢琴。

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Thancred, unwilling to wait for Lord Emmanellain to gather himself, declares that you and he have more important matters to attend to in Ishgard before taking his leave. Indeed, he is correct, for Ser Aymeric is still waiting for you to deliver Lucia's report in her stead.

Change, however well intentioned, is often met with resistance. With resignation and pride both, Ser Aymeric admits that Ishgard is a nation built on centuries of warfare. To pursue peace in denial of this history is a doomed venture; rather, the people must be encouraged to embrace their identity, and take pride in one another's achievements, that they might be moved to common purpose. Happily, they will not want for suitable encouragement. The other members of the Eorzean Alliance have recently proposed joint military exercises, which Ser Aymeric believes could be presented as a “grand melee” to the public. Should Ishgard's forces triumph over those of the other city–states, it would doubtless do much to restore the nation's morale. Lord Edmont acknowledges that there is merit to the lord commander's plan, and his only request is that his younger son take part in the melee, that he might make amends for his mistakes in Falcon's Nest. Though Ser Aymeric agrees in principle, he remains to be convinced that Emmanellain's wishes are in alignment with those of his lord father.

Thancred is amused by the suggestion of an Ishgardian grand melee, wondering aloud what part you will be expected to play in the affair─and whether or not you will feel moved to oblige. As Ser Aymeric's grand scheme calls for a diverse force of Ishgardians to take the field, he departs to seek Hilda's opinion on the subject, leaving you to speak with Lucia alone.

As you detail Ser Aymeric's plan, Lucia cannot help but let her reservations show. Doubtless, as a Garlean citizen, she bore witness to similar spectacles intended to rally the people to the imperial cause─for weal or for woe. Nevertheless, out of loyalty to Ser Aymeric, she sets about selecting candidates from both the Temple Knights and the watch, preparing a list of the latter to be delivered to Hilda.

Hilda accepts the first commander's suggestions with grace, observing that she has an eye for talent. The watch successfully recruited, Thancred's thoughts turn, rather grudgingly, to the task of finding Lord Emmanellain. He suggests you try searching for him in the Pillars.

Born into privilege, Lord Emmanellain has never known true freedom. Like his brothers, his path in life was decided from birth. Yet as the old order crumbles and many are forced to choose a new path, he finds himself bewildered and lost. Terrified of making the wrong choice, he has let his father and brother order him about. To refrain from choosing is nevertheless a choice, however, and with regret he now sees what his indecision has wrought. Though his father may have had good reason to volunteer him for the melee, he cannot simply accept his command, and resolves to speak with Ser Aymeric himself, that for once he might make his own decision.

What drives a man to fight against all odds, against all opposition, and pursue a path that the world would deny him? In Ser Aymeric, Lord Emmanellain sees a man with unwavering conviction and faith, possessed of an almost supernatural strength. So inspired, he begs leave to participate in the grand melee, with a humility so unexpected that even Lord Edmont cannot contain his surprise. Ser Aymeric accepts, and the Ishgardian force is complete, save for a singular individual whom the lord commander would personally invite to join the fray: you. After a moment's introspection, you agree to fight for Ishgard, and a jubilant Ser Aymeric declares that you shall give the people a spectacle for the ages.

Thancred cannot help pointing out that your involvement in the melee could be considered unfair─you being the Warrior of Light. He confesses, however, that Ser Aymeric's honesty inspired even him to briefly contemplate joining the cause─though he quickly clarifies that it would not be his place to do so.
</div>

>> Thancred, unwilling to wait for Lord Emmanellain to gather himself, declares that you and he have more important matters to attend to in Ishgard before taking his leave.
>>
>
>> With <b class="text-red-500">resignation</b> and pride both, Ser Aymeric admits that Ishgard is a nation built on centuries of warfare.
>>
>
> resignation   .n. 顺从，听任；辞职； 辞职信，辞呈；
>
>> To pursue peace in denial of this history is a doomed venture; rather, the people must be encouraged to embrace their identity, and take pride in one another's achievements, that they might be moved to common purpose.
>>
>
>> Should Ishgard's forces triumph over those of the other city–states, it would doubtless do much to restore the nation's <b class="text-red-500">morale</b>.
>>
>
> morale  .n. 士气，精神面貌
>
>> Lord Edmont acknowledges that there is merit to the lord commander's plan
>>
>
>> Though Ser Aymeric agrees in principle, he remains to be convinced that Emmanellain's wishes are in alignment with those of his lord father.
>>
>
>> As you detail Ser Aymeric's plan, Lucia cannot help but let her reservations show.
>>
>
>> Hilda accepts the first commander's suggestions with grace, observing that she has an eye for talent.
>>
>
>> To refrain from choosing is nevertheless a choice, however, and with regret he now sees what his indecision has wrought.
>>
>
> （前半句是：不去选择也是一种选择）
>
>> What drives a man to fight against all <b class="text-red-500">odds</b>, against all opposition, and pursue a path that the world would deny him?
>>
>
> odds 有困难，不利的意思
>
>> So inspired, he begs leave to participate in the grand melee, with a humility so unexpected that even Lord Edmont cannot contain his surprise.
>>
>
>> After a moment's introspection, you agree to fight for Ishgard, and a jubilant Ser Aymeric declares that you shall give the people a spectacle for the ages.
>>

‍
