---
title: 26. A Spectable for the Ages
---

# A Spectacle for the Ages🎧

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- The grand melee is poised to begin, and Lucia would not be late.

Lucia

-- Ser Aymeric informs me that the Alliance leaders have agreed to his proposal. The grand melee will be held here, in the shadow of the Gates of Judgement, and in sight of the capital. An announcement has been made, and Allied forces are currently en route. The eyes of Ishgard are upon us, Luna. We must not fail.

Thancred

-- A rare opportunity to see you pit yourself against Allied forces─outside of Carteneau, perhaps. I would not miss this for the world.

Hilda

-- It ain't often highborn dandies deign to fight alongside us hoi polloi. Like all our namedays rolled into one, it is. Then again, it's our national pride that's at stake. National and personal. I ain't about to let a snotty-nosed lordling show me up.

Thancred

-- It looks to be a veritable who's who of the Eorzean Alliance. The only question is: who came to watch and who came to fight? Hmm...Nanamo. Definitely Nanamo.

Lucia

-- The second commander and Hilda's lieutenants shall see to the security of the city in my absence. The melee demands my undivided attention.

Aymeric

-- 'Tis a matter of pride for the Alliance as well. They will not scruple to send their best against us. Yet we must not be cowed. Too much rests on our success.

Flame Herald

-- Luna, you honor us with your presence. There is a scurrilous rumor going around that you will be taking the field with the Ishgardians. It, uh... It isn't true, is it?

Loanne

-- The field has been made ready. All that remains is for the participants to assemble.

Chaunollet

-- Temple Knights fighting side by side with humble watchmen... A queer sight, but somehow...right.

Emmanellain

-- There she is! I say, when you didn't appear, I began to question... N-Nothing! Never mind! Ahem. To think that we are mere moments away from facing the cream of Eorzea's soldiery in battle. That I am...mere...mmm... But what if...? Oh, what am I saying!? I have to stop imagining the worst! I must think of the victory, of the glory! Of the stories I will tell Honoroit when he awakes!

-- I am ready, old girl! Are you!?

-- By the Fury, how could I forget? Father bid me present this to you. I know it is sudden, but we believe the men would find it inspiring if you bore the colors of House Fortemps into battle. Pray do us this honor.

System 

-- During the grand melee, some of your gear will be glamoured. Your attributes and abilities will be unaffected.
</div>

>> The grand melee is poised to begin, and Lucia would not be late.
>>
>
>> An announcement has been made, and Allied forces are currently <b class="text-red-500">en route</b>.
>>
>
> en route  （法）在途中
>
>> It ain't often highborn <b class="text-red-500">dandies</b> <b class="text-red-500">deign to</b> fight alongside us <b class="text-red-500">hoi polloi</b>.
>>
>
> dandy   .n. 好打扮的男子；花花公子；华丽物品，极品；
>
> deign to do  屈尊做某事
>
> hoi polloi 大众；群众；精英阶层
>
> * The restaurant caters to both the hoi polloi and the elite. 这家餐厅迎合了大众和精英阶层的需求。
>
>> Then again, it's our national pride that's <b class="text-red-500">at stake</b>. 
>>
>
> at stake   利害攸关：处于危险或风险之中，或者是涉及到重要的利益或结果。
>
> * The outcome of the negotiation is at stake. 谈判的结果关系重大。
>
>> National and personal. I ain't about to let a <b class="text-red-500">snotty-nosed</b> lordling show me up.
>>
>
> snotty-nosed  .adj. 流鼻涕的
>
>> It looks to be a veritable <b class="text-red-500">who's who</b> of the Eorzean Alliance.
>>
>
> veritable  .adj. 真正的，名副其实的
>
> who's who 习语，英文解释：the people who are most important in a particular group
>
>> The second commander and Hilda's <b class="text-red-500">lieutenants</b> shall see to the security of the city in my absence.
>>
>
> lieutenant   .n. （陆军、海军、空军）中尉；（美国消防、警察部门的）中尉；
>
>> They will not <b class="text-red-500">scruple</b> to send their best against us.
>>
>
> scruple  .v. 对……有顾虑
>
>> Yet we must not be <b class="text-red-500">cowed</b>. Too much rests on our success.
>>
>
> cow  .v. 恐吓，威胁
>
>> There is a <b class="text-red-500">scurrilous</b> rumor going around that you will be <b class="text-red-500">taking the field</b> with the Ishgardians.
>>
>
> scurrilous  .adj. 下流的；说话粗鄙恶劣的；无礼的
>
> take the field  上场：开始比赛时球员们跑上场地。

<div class="border p-6">
Aymeric

-- Let all here present heed well the rules of engagement!

System

-- The grand melee is a large-scale battle in which an allied company of Ul'dahn, Gridanian, and Lominsan forces will be pitted against a company of Ishgardian forces.

-- When a combatant is incapacitated, the opposing company will be awarded tactical points.

-- The first company to attain the designated tactical rating of 100 points is declared the victor.

-- During the grand melee, officiants may mark certain combatants with the Fury's Gaze which will be indicated by an aetherial tether linking them to their company's flag. While defeating most combatants will award your company 1 tactical point, defeating marked combatants will award your company 10 tactical points. Marked combatants also possess enhanced attributes, rendering them more powerful and more difficult to defeat. Defending and defeating these combatants is the key to victory!

Aymeric

-- For the honor and the glory of Ishgard!

Nanamo

-- All is ready, then. Very well.

-- Brave men and women of the Eorzean Alliance. Let the grand melee begin!
</div>

>> The grand melee is a large-scale battle in which an allied company of Ul'dahn, Gridanian, and Lominsan forces will be <b class="text-red-500">pitted against</b> a company of Ishgardian forces.
>>
>
> pit against 与（某人或某物）对抗或竞争
>
>> When a <b class="text-red-500">combatant</b> is incapacitated, the opposing company will be awarded <b class="text-red-500">tactical</b> points.
>>
>
> combatant  .n. 战士；争斗者
>
> tactical  .adj. 战术的；策略的；善于策略的

<div class="border p-6">
Flustered Temple Knight

-- Cyclops! Cyclops! Everyone, on your guard!

Lucia

-- All forces, fall back!

Thancred

-- Continue the melee! I will deal with him!

Hilda

-- Hmph. Daft sod... You heard the man! Back to it!

Aymeric

-- All forces, form a line on Luna! Now!

-- Well met. I will not lie─I was hoping it would come to this. So then...shall we dance?

Aymeric

-- Damn it all!
</div>

>> Cyclops! Cyclops! Everyone, on your guard!
>>
>
> Cyclops 独眼巨人

<div class="border p-6">
Aymeric the Blue: Forward, forward! Ishgard! Ishgard!
Aymeric the Blue: The Fury's Gaze is upon us!
Aymeric the Blue: Luna, Lord Emmanellain─attend to the marked ones!
Aymeric the Blue: They fall! Find the next─press our advantage!
Flame General Aldynn: Come, Ishgardians! Show us your mettle!
Aymeric the Blue: Ishgard! Rally to the first commander!
Aymeric the Blue: Victory is within our grasp! Ishgard! Ishgard!
Flame General Aldynn: Aye, that's the spirit! Flames, Adders, Maelstrom─forward!
Aymeric the Blue: The Fury's Gaze has fallen upon...General Raubahn and...
Emmanellain the Lofty: By the Fury, it's just the two of them in there!
Lucia the Radiant: On your guard, Lord Emmanellain! Our fight is not yet finished!
The Mongrel: That all you bastards've got!? Come on, then! Give us another!
Emmanellain the Lofty: Gods, they just keep coming! But we cannot...we will not yield!
Emmanellain the Lofty: You hear me, old girl!? Don't you dare lose!
Flame General Aldynn: Bwahahaha! Brilliant, brilliant! You are indeed the Warrior of Light...
Flame General Aldynn: ...But I am the Bull of Ala Mhigo!
Aymeric the Blue: Strength, Luna, strength! Now is your chance!
Aymeric the Blue: Strike him down! For the glory of Ishgard!
Flame General Aldynn: Aye, all right... Take your victory. You've earned it.
</div>

‍

<div class="border p-6">
Emmenellain

-- Did...did she win? Then we...we...

Aymeric

-- Victory is ours! Ishgard! Ishgard!

-- Well fought! Well fought, my friend! You truly are the warrior of warriors! Thank the Fury you were on our side!

Emmenellain

-- Hah hah...my lungs are burning, and I can barely stand! I didn't think I could do it...but then I did! We did! We faced the Alliance's best, and together, with one heart, with one purpose, we prevailed! After a thousand years of hardship, of strife and bloodshed, we are strong enough to rise to any challenge─be it on the battlefield or beyond.

-- The future holds so much promise. So much joy. We need only show them the way.

Nanamo

-- A truly magnificent display, ser knight. While doubtless less than pleased, I am quite sure the Grand Companies are honored to have been bested by such valiant warriors.

Aymeric

-- The honor was ours, Your Grace.

Nanamo

-- I am pleased to see that Ishgard's proud martial tradition is being upheld. When the time comes, I trust you will fight alongside your brothers and sisters in the Eorzean Alliance with the same fervor you displayed in opposing them.

-- I note that our friend elected to take the field in Ishgardian colors.

Aymeric

-- At my behest, Your Grace. If we have given offense, the blame lies with me.

Nanamo

-- Fear not, ser knight. It was a surprise, nothing more. And any hint of ill-feeling was thoroughly dispelled by the spectacle of our mutual friend's duel with General Raubahn.

-- On the subject of surprises, I could not help but marvel at the passion and unity of purpose displayed by your countrymen...given the troubling reports we have received of late.

Aymeric

-- I shall take that as a compliment, Your Grace. The events to which you allude are the price of change. The end of the Dragonsong War marks the beginning of a new era for our nation─and for the people, high- and lowborn alike, who will lead her into the future.

Nanamo

-- Ah, yes... The people.

-- Change is indeed a perilous thing, for we who seek it and they who fear it. I shall pray for Ishgard─and for you.

Thancred

-- Well, that made for a refreshing change. Congratulations on your victory, by the way.

-- The Ishgardians certainly seem happy with themselves. I, for my part, am merely glad you did not strain anything in the process of single-handedly winning the battle for them.

-- 'Tis but a scratch, I assure you. And I will not suffer you to worry over me─not when we have a dozen far more important concerns.

-- ...Make that two dozen. Still, as Y'shtola never tires of telling me, we can but face them head-on, one at a time. One day at a time...as Minfilia would have done.
</div>

>> If we have given offense, the blame lies with me.
>>
>
>> And any hint of ill-feeling was thoroughly dispelled by the spectacle of our <b class="text-red-500">mutual</b> friend's duel with General Raubahn.
>>
>
> mutual  .adj. 相互的，彼此的；共同的，共有的；
>
>> On the subject of surprises, I could not help but <b class="text-red-500">marvel</b> at the passion and unity of purpose displayed by your countrymen...given the troubling reports we have received of late.
>>
>
> marvel  .v. 感到惊奇，大为赞叹
>
>> The events to which you <b class="text-red-500">allude</b> are the price of change.
>>
>
> allude .v. 暗指，影射；略加提及；（艺术家，艺术品）使人想起（从前的作品或风格）
>
>> I, for my part, am merely glad you did not <b class="text-red-500">strain</b> anything in the process of <b class="text-red-500">single-handedly</b> winning the battle for them.
>>
>
> strain  .v. 竭力，使劲；过滤；使不堪忍受，使紧张；用力推（或拉），拉紧
>
> single-handedly  独力地; 单独地
>
>> Still, as Y'shtola never tires of telling me, we can but face them <b class="text-red-500">head-on</b>, one at a time.
>>
>
> head-on  .adv. 迎头；头朝前地；正面针对地

<div class="border p-6">
Pipin

-- As long as I live, I shall never forget that duel. It was inspiring and humbling in equal measure. I feel honor-bound to point out, however, that my father was fighting one-handed.

Thancred

-- I believe the Flame General would like a word.

Emmanellain

-- What are we waiting for!? We must return to the capital at once and tell them all about our victory!

Chaunollet

-- Never did I doubt! Nay, not for a moment! By the Fury, I could fair burst with pride! Ishgard! Ishgard!

Loanne

-- What a sight! Blades flashing, magicks dazzling─I could scarce make out who had the advantage from one moment to the next. And that duel... By the Fury, I was wringing my hands until the very end! I cannot wait to tell the others!

Hilda

-- That was just another battle for you, I bet, but for my lot... Hmph. It weren't so much the fightin' as the not trippin' over each other's feet. His lordship might think about layin' on some actual trainin' for us next time.

Lucia

-- The messengers have already been dispatched. Let us pray that this victory has the desired effect.

Aymeric

-- I confess, it stung my pride to be brushed aside so easily. But when the flames subsided, and I saw you standing there triumphant, there was only gladness in my heart.

Raubahn

-- Thal's balls... I had forgotten what it was like to feel so alive! Not since leaving the bloodsands have I had the privilege. Not since the Bull of Ala Mhigo hung up his swords. Back then, the outcome might have been different. But I do not begrudge you your victory. I know how far you have come, how much you have endured. Our fight only confirmed it. We shall have to do this again one day, when time allows. I shall look forward to it. Now go. Go to the Ishgardians and celebrate your victory. You have earned it.

-- Come, Pipin. Her Grace is expecting us.

Pipin

-- Lead on, Father!

Thancred

-- Said your good-byes?

-- In all the years I have known Raubahn, I cannot recall ever seeing him look so happy in defeat. Well! Everything seems to be falling into place, does it not? The Ishgardians have claimed their symbolic victory, and the Eorzean Alliance has been strengthened in the process. Be proud, Luna. You made this happen.
</div>

>> Blades flashing, magicks dazzling─I could scarce <b class="text-red-500">make out</b> who had the advantage from one moment to the next.
>>
>
> make out  辨认出，理解：努力看或听以理解或辨认某事物；
>
>> And that duel... By the Fury, I was <b class="text-red-500">wringing</b> my hands until the very end!
>>
>
> wring  .v. 拧；绞；紧握；使痛苦；折磨
>
>> It weren't so much the fightin' as the not <b class="text-red-500">trippin' over</b> each other's feet.
>>
>
> trip over  绊倒或摔倒：因为脚碰到某人或某物而绊倒或摔倒，差点摔倒。
>
>> His lordship might think about layin' on some actual trainin' for us next time.
>>
>
>> I confess, it stung my pride to be brushed aside so easily.
>>
>
>> But when the flames <b class="text-red-500">subsided</b>, and I saw you standing there triumphant, there was only gladness in my heart.
>>
>
> subside  .v. 趋于平静，平息；（建筑物或土地）沉降，下陷；（水）退；
>
>> Everything seems to be falling into place, does it not?
>>

<div class="border p-6">
Thancred

-- I cannot help but wonder what would have happened had you lost... Fantastical though such a state of affairs unquestionably is. I daresay the world would simply have ended.

Lucia

-- When you are ready to return, pray inform the lord commander.

Emmanellain

-- I do hope Honoroit recovers soon. I have so much to tell him!

Hilda

-- I never imagined our humble gatherin' of like-minded souls would grow into somethin' proper, let alone a force fit to trade blows with the Alliance's finest. Can't say I didn't enjoy it, neither. Funny how things turn out, eh?
</div>

>> <b class="text-red-500">Fantastical</b> though such a state of affairs unquestionably is.
>>
>
> Fantastical  .adj. 奇异的，虚构的

<div class="border p-6">
Lucia informs you that the grand melee is to be held in central Coerthas, just outside the city. Allied forces are already en route, and your Ishgardian comrades gather in the shadow of the Gates of Judgement.

Lord Emmanellain is understandably nervous, though somewhat comforted by your presence. Marshaling his courage, he turns his thoughts from defeat to victory, and the stories he might tell Honoroit when he wakens from his torpor.

Before the grand melee commences, Lord Emmanellain presents to you a gift: the colors of House Fortemps, which he and his father would have you wear into battle. Obliging his request, you don the armor and take the field with Ishgard, ready to face your brothers and sisters in the Alliance.

Bards often sing of how, in battles, the champions of armies are wont to shun lesser combatants and seek out warriors of equal strength, that they might enjoy proper sport in the midst of war. So it was that Raubahn Aldynn, General of the Immortal Flames, the Bull of Ala Mhigo himself, swept aside all comers and challenged you to single combat. The raging flames held back all the world, and for a time, there were but two. Yet when at last the flames died down, and the others turned to see, only one remained standing. It was then that Ser Aymeric, raising both sword and voice to the heavens, proclaimed victory for Ishgard, for the day was theirs.

As you watch the Ishgardians celebrate their triumph, Thancred, having finally returned from his quarrel with an errant cyclops, offers his congratulations. Though clearly injured, he brushes aside your concern, declaring that there are many, many more important matters to which you both must attend, one day at a time...as Minfilia would have done.

Still grinning with the thrill of the fight, Raubahn declares that he had forgotten what it was like to feel so alive. Rarely do men in his position have the opportunity to take part in battle, and he cannot thank you enough for the indulgence. He duly takes his leave, but not before insisting upon a rematch, when time allows. As he strides away, you cannot help but wonder what might have been had the man been possessed of a full set of arms.

Ser Aymeric's plan appears to have worked faultlessly, strengthening relations between the city–states and providing a victory certain to inspire the people of Ishgard. With a smile, Thancred tells you to be proud, for it was you that made all of this possible.
</div>

>> <b class="text-red-500">Marshaling</b> his courage, he turns his thoughts from defeat to victory, and the stories he might tell Honoroit when he wakens from his torpor.
>>
>
> Marshal  .v. 结集，安排；控制，组织；整理（思路、想法等）；（车辆）编组；引导（飞机在机场地面移动）；
>
>> Obliging his request, you don the armor and take the field with Ishgard, ready to face your brothers and sisters in the Alliance.
>>
>
>> Bards often sing of how, in battles, the champions of armies are wont to <b class="text-red-500">shun</b> lesser combatants and seek out warriors of equal strength, that they might enjoy proper sport in the midst of war.
>>
>
> shun  .v.（故意）避开，躲开
>
>> As you watch the Ishgardians celebrate their triumph, Thancred, having finally returned from his <b class="text-red-500">quarrel</b> with an <b class="text-red-500">errant</b> cyclops, offers his congratulations.
>>
>
> quarrel  .n. 争吵，拌嘴；抱怨（或不赞成）的理由；
>
> errant  .adj. 不定的；周游的；错误的；偏离正路的
>
>> Still <b class="text-red-500">grinning</b> with the thrill of the fight, Raubahn declares that he had forgotten what it was like to feel so alive.
>>
>
> grin  .v. 露齿而笑，咧着嘴笑
>
>> Rarely do men in his position have the opportunity to take part in battle, and he cannot thank you enough for the <b class="text-red-500">indulgence</b>.
>>
>
> indulgence  .n. 沉溺，沉迷；纵容，放纵；嗜好，享受；宽容，包涵；

# For Those We Can Yet Save🎧

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Ser Aymeric is beaming with pride.

Aymeric

-- We have done it─nay, you have done it. You have brought us the victory we so desperately needed. There is naught left but to return to the capital. Come─let us see what reception awaits us.
</div>

>> Ser Americ is <b class="text-red-500">beaming</b> with pride.
>>
>
> beam  .v. 喜笑颜开，面露喜色

<div class="border p-6">
Honoroit

-- My lord!

Emmanellain

-- Honoroit, my boy! Shouldn't you be in bed?

Honoroit

-- Thank you for your concern, my lord, but I have largely recovered from my ordeal, and I have naught but several scars to show for it. Which, I have been told, some women may find...appealing.

Emmanellain

-- I see! And to think I was worried sick over you!

Honoroit

-- I'm not sure I understand, my lord.

Emmanellain

-- Well, let's put that theory to the proof, shall we?

Honoroit

-- 	M-M-My lord!?

Alphinaud

-- 'Twould seem that a great many things have occurred in my absence. I thought I might begin to make amends by welcoming you in person.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- The messengers spared not their chocobos to bring us word of your victory in the grand melee. I cannot well describe our elation when we heard the news. It called to mind the day we rejoined the Eorzean Alliance, when I glimpsed hope rekindled in the eyes of the people.

Lucia

-- The Fury Herself ushers us into a new era. Ser Aymeric, the time is now!

Aymeric

-- Aye, that it is. Reconvene the conference and summon Vidofnir to Falcon's Nest. We will make peace with Hraesvelgr's brood and hasten this bloody war to its end.

Lucia

-- Yes, Lord Commander!

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- I will send word to Artoirel and bid him resume preparations.

-- Emmanellain─you will place yourself at your brother's disposal. He will be glad of your assistance.

Thancred

-- No stopping it now, is there? We should inform Y'shtola and the others.

Aymeric

-- My dear friend...I doubt I will ever be able to thank you enough. But when the conference is successfully concluded, I damn well mean to try.
</div>

>> The Fury Herself ushers us into a new era. Ser Aymeric, the time is now!
>>
>
>> Emmanellain─you will place yourself at your brother's disposal.
>>
>
>> But when the conference is successfully concluded, I <b class="text-red-500">damn well</b> mean to try.
>>
>
> damn well   强调或肯定的副词，表示非常清楚或肯定
>
> * I damn well know what I'm doing. 我非常清楚我在做什么。

<div class="border p-6">
Alphinaud

-- They say you dueled General Raubahn within a ring of flames. I did not think the man so ostentatious. Would that I could have seen it... After we parted ways in Matoya's Cave, I returned here to speak with Tataru. We agreed to tell the others only that our search for Minfilia had reached an impasse. I subsequently learned that you had left for Falcon's Nest, but I thought it best to keep to myself for a time. I am wont to rely on you overmuch when we are together, and I needed to think. To reflect. I still do, I suspect, but matters here seemed to be coming to a head. In short, there are some things I feel I must say─though nothing so urgent that it cannot wait until after the conference. So let us make for Falcon's Nest, and see if Lord Artoirel has need of our assistance.
</div>

>> I did not think the man so <b class="text-red-500">ostentatious</b>.
>>
>
> ostentatious  .adj. 招摇的；卖弄的；夸耀的；铺张的；惹人注目的
>
>> We agreed to tell the others only that our search for Minfilia had reached an <b class="text-red-500">impasse</b>.
>>
>
> impasse  .n. 僵局；死路
>
>> I subsequently learned that you had left for Falcon's Nest, but I thought it best to keep to myself for a time. I am wont to rely on you overmuch when we are together, and I needed to think. To reflect.
>>

<div class="border p-6">
Alphinaud

-- As Ser Aymeric hoped, Ishgard's success at the grand melee has done much to restore the people's faith in this endeavor. Look on their faces, Luna. Nervous, yet hopeful... Expectant, in a word.

Modest Matron

-- I held on to the anger for so long. It was the only way I could cope with my husband's passing. But my daughter, stubborn as she is, insisted that we attend. I never thought this day would come. Never wanted it. Never needed it. But when I saw all these young ones... For their sake, then...and perhaps for his memory too.

Highborn Merchant

-- While I am here, my family are at home celebrating the birth of our grandson. Though it pains me to be so far away, my wife insisted that one of us attend the ceremony, to tell the boy of this day when he is old enough to understand. The world he will know as an adult shall be much changed if Ser Aymeric's conference succeeds─and if each and every one of us lends him our support.

Lowborn Youth

-- I haven't forgotten about what happened, but everyone else seems willing to give Ser Aymeric another chance...so I will, too.

Proud Patriot

-- Did you hear how Ishgard trounced the Alliance forces in the grand melee? Hah, I knew they would be no match for us! All credit to the lord commander, I say. I know some still had their doubts about his watch initiative, but who can argue with results like that?

Spirited Stonecutter

-- It true that lordling fought in the grand melee? Bugger me, that must've been a thing to see. But they say he acquitted himself well enough. His way of making amends, I'll wager.

Redwald

-- Much has been said of your role in the grand melee. Needless to say, more than a few of my subordinates have implored me to invite you to a training session, that they might benefit from your guidance─though such conversations can wait.

Tourcenet

-- After that disaster with the protesters, it seemed like the conference was doomed to failure. But now? Sometimes it feels like nothing even happened. I'm glad and all, but it's a bit surprising, even strange...

Auriaune

-- Wait...you aren't about to leave, are you? The Dravanian emissary could arrive at any moment!

Emerissel

-- All seems well for now. Nevertheless, we can ill afford to be caught off guard a second time.

Noirterel

-- No time to talk! I've got to prepare enough soup to feed a bloody conference, in case you haven't noticed!

Rothe

-- Praise Halone, I was beginnin' to think that scaffold would never get used! We worked like beasts to build the bloody thing in time, only for the protest to delay everything. Better late than never, anyway.

Ingaret

-- Rest assured that we will take no chances this time. All guests have been questioned, and we will have people watching the crowd for the duration of the ceremony.
</div>

>> Look on their faces, Luna. Nervous, yet hopeful... <b class="text-red-500">Expectant</b>, in a word.
>>
>
> Expectant  .adj. 满怀期待的；即将为人父母的；
>
> * If someone is **expectant**, they are excited because they think something interesting is about to happen.
>
>> I <b class="text-red-500">held on to</b> the anger for so long. It was the only way I could <b class="text-red-500">cope with</b> my husband's passing. But my daughter, stubborn as she is, insisted that we attend.
>>
>
> hold on to 紧紧抓住或保持某物，不放手或不失去它
>
> cope with  应对；克服任何困难；处理
>
>> Nevertheless, we can ill afford to <b class="text-red-500">be caught off guard</b> a second time.
>>
>
> be caught off guard  措手不及：在没有准备的情况下被突然发生的事情所困扰或影响。
>
> * I was caught off guard by the sudden rainstorm and got soaked. 我被突然的暴雨所措手不及，全身都湿透了。
>
>> Better late than never, anyway.
>>
>
> **Better late than never** : The phrase 'Better Late than Never' means that doing something late is better than not doing it at all.
>
>> Rest assured that we will <b class="text-red-500">take no chances</b> this time.
>>
>
> take no chances  不冒险：不做有风险或危险的事情。
>
> * He decided to take no chances and wore a helmet while riding his bike. 他决定不冒险，在骑自行车时戴上了头盔。

<div class="border p-6">
Artoirel

-- Well met, Mistress Kali, and thank you for looking after my brother. They say he fought bravely─that he did not dishonor his house. But you, my lady─to you we owe everything. As you can see, we have made every effort to strike while the iron is hot. We made our intentions known, and that all would be welcome to attend. And so they came. By the grace of the Fury, they came. The ceremony will not be a lengthy affair, but there is still much to be done! I would speak with you more, but I must see to my duties. As for you and Master Alphinaud─you will do naught but enjoy yourselves, is that clear? If any dare beg your assistance again, I will have words.

Alphinaud

-- Well, there you have it. We have been forbidden from meddling. Shall we wait, or have you other matters to attend to before the ceremony begins?

Me

-- See to other matters first.

Alphinaud

-- By all means, then. I will remain here.

Me

-- Wait with Alphinaud for the ceremony to begin.

Alphinaud

-- Excellent. I only hope Thancred and the others will not be late. Epochal events do not come around very often.
</div>

>> As you can see, we have made every effort to strike while the iron is hot.
>>
>
>> We have been forbidden from <b class="text-red-500">meddling</b>.
>>
>
> meddle  .v.干涉，管闲事，干预他人之事；瞎搞，乱弄

<div class="border p-6">
Lucia

-- The appointed hour approaches.

Aymeric

-- Aye.

Lucia

-- She begged leave to watch the proceedings. I saw no reason not to grant it.

Aymeric

-- Should I choose to deviate from my prepared remarks, I ask that you trust in my judgment.

Lucia

-- Have I ever done otherwise?

Vidofnir

-- Ah, how long it hath been since our peoples met thus, children of Thordan. Even by our reckoning.

Aymeric

-- Vidofnir, daughter of Hraesvelgr, we give thanks for your visit and bid you welcome to Falcon's Nest.

Vidofnir

-- Our sire bade us hearken unto the whispers of our hearts. They spoke to us of a paradise lost─of bonds of brotherhood which they yearn to see restored.

Aymeric

-- Ours too yearn for such a restoration. And they have guided us here this day, that they might yearn no longer.

-- Brothers and sisters, ye who stand as witness, hearken to me! Since the days of eld, when the bonds betwixt man and dragon were sundered by our hand, our peoples have known only war. Bloodshed without end, losses beyond counting─and still we fought. And still we fought. Some wounds do not heal. The dead cannot be returned to us. But we the living can yet choose another course. Here and now, we can lay down this burden─this hatred, this vengeance. Our forebears fought not so that we could die, but that we might live! So let us honor their sacrifice and spare our children this death sentence. Let us gift them a new legacy. Life!

Vidofnir

-- Betwixt our peoples yawneth a divide deeper than the deepest abyss; wider than the widest sea. Generations will live and die ere this divide is bridged. Knowing this, doth thy heart yet yearn for peace, son of Thordan?

Aymeric

-- Look now on the legacy we would leave to our children. A dream of peace inscribed in stone for generations to come.

Vidofnir

-- Father and his beloved. As they were so long ago. Happy and at peace. The dream they shared shall be ours once more.

Nidhogg

-- Never!

Aymeric

-- Your bow!

Aymeric

-- Estinien! No...

Nidhogg

-- Child of Dravania! Art thou grown so forgetful that thou wouldst forsake kith and kin, and consort with the spawn of Thordan? That thou wouldst dare contemplate peace! Hearken unto me, all of you! The final chorus is nigh, and all will be held to account! All will bathe in the flames of retribution! Till the coming of that day, look you on your sins and despair! For none shall 'scape my wrath! None shall 'scape my revenge!

Alphinaud

-- Seven hells!

-- Damn you, Nidhogg...

Disillusioned Lord

-- Hells take that wyrm! While he lives, we'll never know peace!

Distraught Lady

-- Aye, there'll be no end to this war till Nidhogg is dead and gone!

Furious Man

-- So let's kill the bastard and be done with it! Death to Nidhogg! Death to Nidhogg! Death to Nidhogg!

Angry Mob

-- Death to Nidhogg! Death to Nidhogg!
Death to Nidhogg! Death to Nidhogg!
Death to Nidhogg! Death to Nidhogg!
</div>

>> Should I choose to <b class="text-red-500">deviate</b> from my prepared remarks, I ask that you trust in my judgment.
>>
>
> deviate  .v. 偏离，脱离；违背
>
>> Brothers and sisters, <b class="text-red-500">ye</b> who stand as witness, hearken to me!
>>
>
> ye  你们，汝等，就是you，这里用在了特别正式的场合
>
>> Art thou grown so forgetful that thou wouldst forsake <b class="text-red-500">kith</b> and kin, and consort with the <b class="text-red-500">spawn</b> of Thordan?
>>
>
> kith  .n. 朋友；邻居
>
> spawn  .v.（鱼、青蛙、软体动物、甲壳类等）产卵；引发，促生；大量生产；<贬>（人）生（孩子，多指不想要的孩子）；
>
>> The final <b class="text-red-500">chorus</b> is nigh, and all will be held to account!
>>
>
> chorus  .n. 副歌，叠句；合唱团，歌咏队；齐声，异口同声；合唱歌曲；

<div class="border p-6">
Alphinaud

-- There they go, the last of the guests. Having come hither with hope in their hearts, they depart with hatred and bloodlust... Until the moment I saw him strike, I still held some small hope that what you had seen in Azys Lla was...an illusion, perhaps. But he acted without hesitation...as did Ser Aymeric.

-- For a mercy, Vidofnir's wound was not mortal, or so Lucia tells me. The dragon was spirited away to Anyx Trine to receive care from her brethren. We can but hope her recovery is swift. ...But such was surely Nidhogg's intent. To deliver a proclamation not only to the children of Thordan, but to his kindred. “War is coming, and ye who do not stand with us stand apart.” She was an example─a message to her brood. Another instrument of his vengeance...like Estinien.
</div>

>> For a mercy, Vidofnir's wound was not <b class="text-red-500">mortal</b>, <b class="text-red-500">or so</b> Lucia tells me.
>>
>
> mortal  .adj. 终有一死的，不能永生的；极其严重的，致命的；至死方休的，不共戴天的；极度的，极其强烈的；死的，临死的；（因罪孽深重而）灵魂无法得救的，不能蒙神恩得宽恕的；
>
> or so  大约

<div class="border p-6">
As you pass through the city gates, a familiar voice calls out in greeting. Honoroit, Lord Emmanellain's manservant, has made a full recovery and is eager to resume his duties. As the boy and his master make up for lost time, Alphinaud and Lord Edmont bid you welcome as well, congratulating you and your comrades on your rousing victory over the Alliance. Emboldened by their words, Ser Aymeric declares that the peace conference is to be reconvened at once─that they will make peace with Hraesvelgr's brood and hasten the Dragonsong War to its end.

Alphinaud reveals that while he knew of your journey to Falcon's Nest, he refrained from joining you there for fear of turning to you for guidance. Master Matoya's words left a lasting impression on him, and he desired time alone to reflect on his life's course. Though he is yet uncertain about a great many matters, there are things he would say to you...but only after the conference is concluded.

Falcon's Nest is once more bustling with activity, the main square filled with spectators awaiting the commencement of ceremonies. Amidst the hubbub, you find Lord Artoirel, who thanks you for looking after his younger brother in the grand melee. Alas, he cannot speak with you at length, for duty calls, and he leaves you and Alphinaud to wait for the conference to begin.

For one thousand years have generations of Ishgardians and Dravanians lived and died, unable to conceive of a world without war. But when, during the unveiling of a relief celebrating the union of Saint Shiva and Hraesvelgr, Ser Aymeric and Vidofnir come together and speak of peace, such a world seems more than mere fantasy.

The dream endures for all of an instant. Without warning, Estinien leaps down from on high and drives his lance into Vidofnir's back, the white dragon's blood painting the relief a deep red. As the dragon collapses, Ser Aymeric seizes a bow and looses an arrow at his friend's heart, duty guiding his hand. The dragoon has naught to fear from worldly weapons, however, swatting aside the deadly shaft and regaining his perch atop a nearby tower. Silence.

All present strain to see the man who once embodied Ishgard's defiance. Estinien's now-crimson armor radiates a malevolent power which pours forth from two massive, twitching eyes fused to his arm and shoulder. And when he speaks, it is not with the voice of a man, but a wyrm. Nidhogg. The wrathful shade declares that the final chorus of the Dragonsong War is nigh, and that all will soon answer for their sins. He then throws his arms wide, and with a bestial roar, transforms into his draconic form, taking wing for distant skies. Ser Aymeric's face is a mask, unreadable, his eyes fixed upon the wyrm as he whispers an oath you cannot hear for the cries of the crowd howling for Nidhogg's blood.

Alphinaud watches as the last guests leave Falcon's Nest. Vidofnir will live, he tells you, though it was surely not by accident. Nidhogg's declaration of war was doubtless also a demonstration of power for Hraesvelgr's brood─and for the Ishgardians, who could do naught but watch as he wielded Estinien as an instrument of his vengeance.
</div>

>> As the boy and his master make up for lost time, Alphinaud and Lord Edmont bid you welcome as well, congratulating you and your comrades on your rousing victory over the Alliance.
>>
>
>> Master Matoya's words left a lasting impression on him, and he desired time alone to reflect on his life's course.
>>
>
>> Falcon's Nest is once more bustling with activity, the main square filled with spectators awaiting the commencement of ceremonies.
>>
>
>> Amidst the <b class="text-red-500">hubbub</b>, you find Lord Artoirel, who thanks you for looking after his younger brother in the grand melee.
>>
>
> hubbub  .n. 喧哗；骚动
>
>> Alas, he cannot speak with you at length, for duty calls, and he leaves you and Alphinaud to wait for the conference to begin.
>>
>
>> As the dragon collapses, Ser Aymeric seizes a bow and looses an arrow at his friend's heart, duty guiding his hand.
>>
>
>> The dragoon has naught to fear from worldly weapons, however, <b class="text-red-500">swatting</b> aside the deadly <b class="text-red-500">shaft</b> and regaining his perch atop a nearby tower.
>>
>
> swat  .v. 用劲打击；重拍；全垒打
>
> shaft   .n. 竖井，通风井；（工具或武器的）杆，柄；（机器的）轴；（马车的）辕；箭，矛；
>
>> All present <b class="text-red-500">strain</b> to see the man who once embodied Ishgard's defiance.
>>
>
> strain  .v. 拉伤，扭伤；绷紧，用力拉；竭力，使劲；过滤；使不堪忍受，使紧张；用力推（或拉），拉紧
>
>> Estinien's now-crimson armor radiates a malevolent power which <b class="text-red-500">pours</b> forth from two massive, <b class="text-red-500">twitching</b> eyes fused to his arm and shoulder.
>>
>
> pour  .v. 倾倒，倒出；（给……）斟，倒（饮料等）；倾泻，涌流；（人，物）接踵而至，纷至沓来；（雨）倾盆而下；
>
> twitch  .v.（使）抽搐，（使）抽动；猛拉，急扯；扯绳勒（马）
>
>> He then throws his arms wide, and with a <b class="text-red-500">bestial</b> roar, transforms into his <b class="text-red-500">draconic</b> form, taking wing for distant skies.
>>
>
> bestial  .adj. 兽性的，卑劣的；残忍的；野蛮的
>
> draconic  .adj.  龙的；似龙的

# Causes and Costs🎧

<div class="border p-6">
System Guide

-- Alphinaud knows at last what he must do.

Lucia

-- Well met, Luna. Would that we could have spoken before leaving Falcon's Nest, but the situation demanded that Ser Aymeric return to the city at once. Nidhogg has made his intentions clear. One way or another, the coming battle will mark the end of the war.

House Fortemps Steward

-- When the heralds announced the results of the grand melee, Honoroit rushed outside, eager to greet his master at the city gates. So eager, in fact, that he nearly did so barefoot. <sigh> For all his experience, he is yet a boy. A loyal one, though, with the potential to rise high in this household...if he can learn to refrain from the occasional observation.
w
Honoroit

-- Ah, Mistress Kali... I believe I have yet to properly express my gratitude to you for coming to my aid. Pray accept my most sincere apologies and my heartfelt gratitude.

-- (I should also express my thanks for looking after my lord during the grand melee. Though he appears to have benefited from the experience, I have no doubt that he will stray from his chosen course once more...but when that time comes, I shall do my utmost to keep him on the path.)

Emmanellain

-- You know, old girl, I've been thinking... Maybe it's not all bad? True, the peace conference was a complete disaster...but it did serve to unite the people, after a fashion, did it not? All we have to do now is, er, kill the dread wyrm that has seized control of the Azure Dragoon and is planning to lead the Horde in an assault on our fair city any day now. Any day now...

Hilda

-- We've come a long way, me and the boys. From dirty Brume rats fightin' against the powers that be to respectable folk workin' openly with them. In the end, you do whatever it takes to ensure that you and yours survive. Fight when you've got to, make peace when you can. So aye, if there's nothing for it, we'll fight that damn wyrm. We've come this far, and we're not about to stop.

Redwald

-- No wonder he did not interfere with our preparations. It was Nidhogg's plan from the beginning to use this occasion to deliver his proclamation─to deprive us of hope and leave us with naught but despair. But we will not be so easily cowed. When the time comes, the golden bell will sound, and every man and woman of House Durendaire will hearken to its call!

Tourcenet

-- Even now, their voices echo in my ears. I do not think I shall ever forget it. I had hoped that I might soon put up my sword, but now...

Noirterel

-- In times like these, it's especially important for a cook to keep his people well fed. My brother down in Whitebrim, now there's a cook who could feed a garrison for weeks with popotoes and mudpuppy tails and still have them in high spirits. But I'm no slouch myself!

Rothe

-- And just like that, everythin' we've worked so hard to build is in danger of bein' torn down. But that's the way of the world, isn't it? If they succeed, then we'll just have to build it back up again, harder and stronger.

Ingaret

-- First the protest, now Nidhogg!? I never imagined that a remote posting could know so much tragedy in such a short time.

Auriaune

-- It is so much more than a mere relief. It is a symbol of what once was, and what could be again. To see it stained with blood...

Vidofnir

-- ...Ah. Thou art concerned for my well-being? 'Tis naught compared to the still-gaping wound which divideth our peoples. Peace ever was a bitter draught for the merciless. To his dying breath, he will rage. We who do not join in the chorus will share in the misery. Such was his vow. But I too swore a vow─that the dream of peace shall be ours once more. No matter what trials may come, I shall be true to my word...and to my heart.
</div>

>> When the <b class="text-red-500">heralds</b> announced the results of the grand melee, Honoroit rushed outside, eager to greet his master at the city gates.
>>
>
> herald   .n. 预兆；使者，先驱；棘翅夜蛾；<古> 掌礼官，（负责比武大会的）纹章官；
>
>> For all his experience, he is yet a boy.
>>
>
>> True, the peace conference was a complete disaster...but it did serve to unite the people, after a fashion, did it not?
>>
>
>> We've come a long way, me and the boys. From dirty Brume rats fightin' against <b class="text-red-500">the powers that be</b> to respectable folk workin' openly with them.
>>
>
> （解读：第一句是我们走过了漫长的旅程，然后解释，一开始是dirty Brume rats，对抗the powers that be，然后变成respectable folk，与它们，也就是当权者，开放式地合作）
>
> the powers that be 当权者：指掌握实际权力的人或机构，通常用于指政府或其他权威机构。
>
> * The decision will be made by the powers that be. 这个决定将由当权者来做。
>
>> My brother down in Whitebrim, now there's a cook who could feed a garrison for weeks with <b class="text-red-500">popotoes</b> and <b class="text-red-500">mudpuppy</b> tails and still have them in high spirits.
>>
>
> popoto和mudpuppy都是食材原料，popoto是ffxiv专有，mudpuppy现实中是一种蝾螈，或者说娃娃鱼。
>
>> But I'm no slouch myself!
>>
>
>> Peace ever was <b class="text-red-500">a bitter draught</b> for the merciless.
>>
>
> a bitter draught 苦酒

<div class="border p-6">
Alphinaud

-- When I said I wished to speak with you after the conference, I confess I envisaged rather happier circumstances. If anything, however, this latest tragedy makes the need more pressing. There are things I must say. Not to the Warrior of Light, or even my fellow Scion, but...to you, Luna. My friend. But not here, no... Ah, but of course. The intercessory in Camp Dragonhead is still open to us. Let us go there.
</div>

>> When I said I wished to speak with you after the conference, I confess I <b class="text-red-500">envisaged</b> rather happier circumstances.
>>
>
> envisage  .v. 设想，展望；
>
>> <b class="text-red-500">If anything</b>, however, this latest tragedy makes the need more pressing.
>>
>
> If anything  反而；倒是：用于表示某种情况或事物可能是相反的或更可能发生，而不是前面提到的情况或事物。
>
>> The <b class="text-red-500">intercessory</b> in Camp Dragonhead is still open to us.
>>
>
> intercessory  .adj. 调解的；仲裁的

<div class="border p-6">
Alphinaud

-- Forgive me. That took longer than expected. ...You seem puzzled. Oh, these? I thought something warming might not go amiss. It was not all that long ago that we sat here, you and I. In our very own “Falling Snows,” as Lord Haurchefant called it. I still struggle to believe he has gone. And Ysayle too... I had such hopes for her...

-- Master Matoya asked me what it was all for. Why we fight...and why we die. Were I still commander of the Braves, I would doubtless have replied, “For the future of Eorzea,” but I am not that man. Not anymore.

-- I needed a new answer. One that I could live with. And when I saw Estinien at the ceremony, I knew at last what it was.

-- I do not want to be a man who sacrifices his friends and family for a cause. I want to fight for Estinien─and I want to save him. When Nidhogg leads the Horde into battle, Ser Aymeric and his forces will do what they believe must be done. That is their choice to make. Yet even if Ser Aymeric is willing to forsake Estinien, I am not.

-- We must fight for him, for he is our friend and ally. We may struggle, we may fail, but we must try.

Me

-- (Option 1) We will find a way to save him.
-- (Option 2) ...To aid those in need.
-- (Option 3) ...

Alphinaud

-- (In reponse to 1) We will. I know we will.
-- (In reponse to 2) Lord Haurchefant would be proud. I knew you would understand! Together, we will surely find a way.
-- (In reponse to 3) Forgive me. I say these things to you in full knowledge of the fact that you have never yet given up on a friend. We will find a way. I know we will.
</div>

>> I thought something warming might not go amiss.
>>

<div class="border p-6">
Alphinaud

-- Thank you, Luna. It is unfair of me to unburden myself in this manner, time after time, but I am glad that you permit me nonetheless. You are my true friend and ally. Though not all of our fellow Scions will support our stance on Estinien, I have faith that we will win them over in due course. Such is the infectious power of hope. Right. That is quite enough solemn introspection for one night. I think we would both benefit from some time in the company of Tataru. She stays for us at Fortemps Manor. Let us not keep her waiting any longer.

Tataru

-- (Well! Alphinaud certainly seems to be in better spirits. Do we have you to thank for this?)

Alphinaud

-- Yet again we walk an all-too-familiar path. I am reminded of when we first came to this manor. Lost and uncertain, we were granted succor in our hour of need. We were saved─and now it is our turn to return the favor!

Tataru

-- Hear, hear! Let no one say that the Scions do not repay their debts! After all, what kind of people would we be if we forsook our friends? If we stopped looking for Yda and Papalymo, or if we gave up hope of bringing Minfilia back?

Alphinaud

-- Though she knew it would cost her dearly, Minfilia reached out to us to deliver a message. She believed it was imperative that we understand the true nature of this star─of the rift between Zodiark and Hydaelyn, and of the Ascians' aspirations. But for all that has been revealed, I cannot shake the suspicion that there is much we have yet to learn...

-- In any event, I think it time we step back from the fray and carefully consider our next course of action. It will not be easy to turn this tragedy to triumph, but we will find a way. We will. We will.
</div>

>> It is unfair of me to unburden myself in this manner, <b class="text-red-500">time after time</b>, but I am glad that you permit me nonetheless.
>>
>
> time after time  多次，经常，频繁地
>
> * Time after time, he failed the exam. 他多次考试不及格。
>
>> Though not all of our fellow Scions will support our stance on Estinien, I have faith that we will win them over in due course. Such is the infectious power of hope.
>>
>
>> I think we would both benefit from some time in the company of Tataru.
>>
>
>> Yet again we walk an <b class="text-red-500">all-too-familiar</b> path.
>>
>
> all-too-familiar  adj．非常熟悉的，过于熟悉的：形容某种情况或事物已经变得非常普遍，以至于人们对其感到厌倦。
>
> * The all-too-familiar story of a talented artist struggling to make a living. 一个才华横溢的艺术家挣扎谋生的故事已经非常熟悉。
>
>> We were saved─and now it is our turn to return the favor!
>>
>
>> She believed it was imperative that we understand the true nature of this star─of the rift between Zodiark and Hydaelyn, and of the Ascians' <b class="text-red-500">aspirations</b>.
>>
>
> aspiration .n.  渴望，抱负，志向；送气音；吸引术，抽吸

<div class="border p-6">
Krile

-- Of all the ways for it to end. Even before his transformation, I could feel the wyrm's hatred swirling about Estinien. The terrible, all-consuming rage...Enough to fuel a thousand-year quest for vengeance. It was all I could do not to run away screaming. But Ishgardians─nay, all Eorzeans─are made of sterner stuff. They face danger and death on a daily basis, and understand what it takes to win a war.

Y'shtola

-- Think not too deeply on Master Matoya's words. Her intent was but to steel our resolve.

-- That, and to remind us to look beyond these passing conflicts to trials greater still─to the truth which hides at the heart of this world.

Krile

-- So that's your aim, is it?

Y'shtola

-- You disapprove?

Krile

-- Not at all! I believe it's traditional for the student to follow in the footsteps of the master. And you are so very alike.
</div>

>> Even before his transformation, I could feel the wyrm's hatred <b class="text-red-500">swirling</b> about Estinien.
>>
>
> swirl  .v.（使）打旋，（使）旋动；流传（尤用于新闻报道）；眩晕
>
>> But Ishgardians─nay, all Eorzeans─are made of <b class="text-red-500">sterner</b> stuff.
>>
>
> sterner  .adj.（人或其态度）严厉的，认真的；（工作等）严峻的，棘手的；不屈从的，不动摇的
>
>> They face danger and death <b class="text-red-500">on a daily basis</b>, and understand what it takes to win a war.
>>
>
> on a daily basis 每天（指一起共事）

<div class="border p-6">
Change─that great, inexorable wave--was upon us, and soon all of Ishgard would bend to its will.

For all our sins, for all our scars, the future for which we had long yearned was at last within our grasp.

But it would be bought at a heavy price.

For in those twilight hours did Nidhogg cry out for vengeance, and his brethren raise their voices for the final chorus of the Dragonsong War.
</div>

>> Change─that great, <b class="text-red-500">inexorable</b> wave--was upon us, and soon all of Ishgard would bend to its will.
>>
>
> inexorable   .adj. <正式>不可阻止的，难以阻挡的；（人）不为恳求所动的，无动于衷的

<div class="border p-6">
Papalymo

-- Caution, Yda─that is all I ask! Do not be so eager to place your faith in them. Not until we know more.

Alphinaud

-- I am through with making sacrifices, Luna. I will not conscience another─not if I can do aught to prevent it. If I must defy the gods themselves to wrest Estinien from Nidhogg's grasp, I will.

Tataru

-- The Scions will find a way! I just know we will!

House Fortemps Manservant

-- Ah, Mistress Kali. You should know that Lord Edmont is most grateful for all you have done for Lord Emmanellain. He believes you to have been a most sobering influence on the young lord─though whether or not it will last remains to be seen. I believe he is already out and about with Honoroit...
</div>

>> I am <b class="text-red-500">through with</b> making sacrifices, Luna.
>>
>
> through with  完成或履行已经同意或承诺的不愉快或困难的事情
>
> * I finally went through with the surgery despite my fears. 尽管害怕，我最终还是完成了手术。
>
>> I will not conscience another─not if I can do aught to prevent it.
>>
>
>> He believes you to have been a most <b class="text-red-500">sobering</b> influence on the young lord─though whether or not it will last remains to be seen.
>>
>
> sobering  .adj. 使清醒的；使冷静的；严重的

<div class="border p-6">
Alphinaud restates that there are things he wishes to say to you─not to the Warrior of Light, or a fellow Scion, but to you, Luna, his friend. He proposes that you travel to Camp Dragonhead, to the intercessory Lord Haurchefant set aside for you long ago, that you might converse in private.

To fight and die for a noble cause is a notion many find romantic, and Alphinaud was no exception. Are not truth, justice, and freedom worth fighting for, after all? Yet having borne witness to the costs of pursuing these many causes, having seen at what price each victory is bought, Alphinaud has had enough. Even if Ser Aymeric and all of Ishgard are willing to sacrifice Estinien to slay Nidhogg, he is not. Though he may fail, Alphinaud is resolved to try to save the dragoon. Touched by your young friend's conviction, you find yourself thinking back to those you have lost. Moenbryda, Wilred, Lord Haurchefant, Ysayle, Minfilia...and one who may yet be saved.

Alphinaud thanks you for allowing him to unburden himself. Though he knows that not all the Scions may agree with his chosen course at first, he has faith that they can be won over in due time. For the present, he would return to Fortemps Manor and, with Tataru's aid, turn his thoughts to more uplifting subjects.

Ever the optimist, Tataru seems positive about your prospects, still believing that Yda, Papalymo, and even Minfilia might one day rejoin the Scions. Reminded of the Antecedent's plight, Alphinaud ponders what could have motivated her to go to such lengths to deliver so curious a message. Though it may be some time before the whole truth is known to you, he seems content to wait and turn his mind to solving the problems of the present. The Scions always find a way.
</div>

>> For the present, he would return to Fortemps Manor and, with Tataru's aid, turn his thoughts to more <b class="text-red-500">uplifting</b> subjects.
>>
>
> uplifting .adj. 令人振奋的；使人开心的
