---
title: 29. Promises Kept
---

## Promises Kept🎧

</div>
System Guide

-- A new day dawns in Ishgard, and the House Fortemps knight has tidings for you.

House Fortemps Knight

-- Mistress Kali! You are come at a most excellent time. An invitation from a truly preeminent personage was delivered to the manor but a short while ago. Would that you had been present to receive it, but in any event... Ser Aymeric de Borel, lord speaker of the House of Lords, lord commander of the Temple Knights, and viscount of House Borel, cordially invites Mistress Kali to dine with him at his estate.

-- You seem surprised. The messenger assured me that his lord had broached the subject with you at an earlier date─when the arrangements for the peace conference were still being finalized... Of course, the intervening moons afforded little opportunity for leisure. But with the happy advent of peace, 'tis plain the lord commander sees no further cause to delay. What say you?

Me

-- (Option 1) I should be glad to accept!
-- (Option 2) I would, but I haven't the foggiest what to wear. Any thoughts?
-- (Option 3) Indeed, who would not! You will forgive me if I seem envious. Ahem!

House Fortemps Knight

-- (In Response to 1) Indeed, who would not! You will forgive me if I seem envious. Ahem! I shall send word of your acceptance to Borel Manor at once. When you are ready, pray report to the Astrologicum. They will have someone escort you the rest of the way.
-- (In Response to 2) Y-You would ask me!? Well, I...I am sure that as a personal friend of Ser Aymeric, you are at liberty to wear whatever you deem appropriate. That said... "When in doubt, a man of note could do far worse than an alpine coat!“ ...At least, that is what Lord Emmanellain has been heard to say. I-I assume the same holds true for ladies. Ahem. When you are ready, pray report to the Astrologicum. A man of House Borel shall be waiting near there to escort you the rest of the way.
-- (In Response to 3) You─ You would rather not? Well...that is a great shame. The messenger went out of his way to express how very much his lord was looking forward to the occasion... Forgive me, but might I trouble you to reconsider, if only as a courtesy to your friend, Ser Aymeric? At the very least, 'twill be an opportunity to sample the finest in Ishgardian cuisine. Should you choose to heed my counsel, a man of House Borel will be waiting for you near the Astrologicum.

-- Pray look for Ser Aymeric's man near the Astrologicum. He will escort you to Borel Manor.

-------------------------------

House Borel Steward

-- Greetings and well met, Mistress Kali. I have the honor and the privilege to serve as head steward of House Borel─though, admittedly, our staff is somewhat smaller than those of other noble families...being countable on one hand. Ahem! My lord will be overjoyed to hear that you have accepted his invitation. As you will soon see, we have spared no expense. I daresay a woman of action such as yourself enjoys nary a moment's respite. Aye, the battlefield beckons even now, I am sure, but for this day, we bid you lay down your burdens and raise a glass to peace and prosperity.
</div>

>> Ser Aymeric de Borel, lord speaker of the House of Lords, lord commander of the Temple Knights, and <b class="text-red-500">viscount</b> of House Borel, <b class="text-red-500">cordially</b> invites Mistress Kali to <b class="text-red-500">dine with</b> him at his estate.
>>
>
> viscount   .n.（英国的）子爵
>
> cordially  .adv. 诚挚地，诚恳地；友善地
>
> dine with  与某人共进晚餐：与某人一起吃晚餐的行为。
>
> * I often dine with my friends on weekends. 我经常在周末与朋友们一起共进晚餐。
>
>> The messenger assured me that his lord had <b class="text-red-500">broached</b> the subject with you at an earlier date─when the arrangements for the peace conference were still being finalized...
>>
>
> broach   .v. 提出；钻孔；开始讨论；给……开口
>
>> I would, but I haven't the foggiest what to wear. Any thoughts?
>>
>
>> When in doubt, a man of note could do far worse than an <b class="text-red-500">alpine</b> coat!
>>
>
> alpine  .adj. 阿尔卑斯山的，高山的

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Aymeric

-- To think the moogles would prove such harsh taskmasters! Forgive me, I did not know you had suffered so in your quest for the horn.

-- I must say, your spirited accounts always come as a welcome change from the arid reports which fill my days. Though I have lived in these lands my entire life, to hear you speak of them, there is much and more I have yet to see. Truly, yours was a marvelous journey.

Me

-- (Option 1) Though perhaps a bit long for my liking.
-- (Option 2) Why not join me on the next?
-- (Option 3) It wasn't all sunshine and lemoncakes.

Aymeric

-- (In response to 1) Long and arduous, aye. Not unlike the journey that Ishgard has at last embarked upon─thanks to the efforts of you and yours.
-- (In response to 2) Hah! Well...truth be told, when I think back on the sweeping vistas of the Churning Mists, I do feel some slight pangs of wanderlust... Alas, much as I would like to accept your invitation, I fear my present duties with the House of Lords demand my undivided attention. Someday, perhaps.
-- (In response to 3) Nor would I presume to imply otherwise. Neither I nor any man alive can truly understand what you have endured, and I cannot say with any confidence that I would have acquitted myself as well under the circumstances─much less grown stronger for it.

-- By your deeds, you have helped us to lay the foundation for lasting reform. The formation of the republic is but the beginning, for it is not only our system of governance which must needs change. We the people must learn to let go of our hatreds and rise above our bloody past. I only pray that I live long enough to see us achieve some measure of success─that I might know the lost did not die in vain. I can still see you there, on the Steps of Faith, striding fearlessly towards the wyrm... If you could do that, who are we to balk at the challenges ahead?

-- The question of how best to strengthen ties with the other great nations of Eorzea has been debated at length in the Lords and Commons of late. As you may imagine, maintaining stability during this period of historic upheaval is our paramount concern. Nevertheless, we are greatly indebted to the Alliance for their support during the grand melee, and it would be remiss of us not to repay their faith in kind. Of course, we owe you the greatest debt of all, and it is my hope that in extending our support to you and the Scions, we might also express our gratitude to our neighbors─nay, our fellow Eorzeans, whom we pray you will continue to protect. The Lords and Commons agree on very little, but not a soul in either house begrudges your order this offer of patronage. For all you have done and will do, we thank you.

-- ...May I ask a personal question? Now that the dust has settled, what will you do? Not as a Scion, I mean, but...what do you want for yourself?

House Fortemps Knight

-- Lord Commander, pray forgive the interruption!

Aymeric

-- News from House Fortemps?

-- An urgent message for the Warrior of Light. I was instructed to deliver it without delay.

House Fortemps Knight

-- Master Thancred returned to the manor a short time ago, bearing an injured maiden. Master Leveilleur and Mistress Tataru are tending to her wounds, but they like not her chances. Respectfully, my lord─they have requested the Warrior of Light's immediate presence.

Aymeric

-- You must go to them, my friend. And I shall go with you.
</div>

>> I must say, your <b class="text-red-500">spirited accounts</b> always come as a welcome change from the <b class="text-red-500">arid</b> reports which fill my days.
>>
>
> spirited accounts  意思应该是“生动的”叙述
>
> arid .adj. 乏味的
>
>> I only pray that I live long enough to see us achieve some measure of success─that I might know the lost did not die in vain.
>>
>
>> If you could do that, who are we to <b class="text-red-500">balk</b> at the challenges ahead?
>>
>
> balk  .v. 畏缩不前，犹豫；（马在障碍物前）突然止步，拒绝跳跃；（棒球投手在投球时）做假动作，佯投；阻止，妨碍
>
>> The question of how best to strengthen ties with the other great nations of Eorzea has been debated at length in the Lords and Commons of late.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
For every ending marks a new beginning.
From tragedy and sacrifice we rise to greet a new dawn. As did she.
Only to be drawn unto another battlefield, another cause, as if by fate...
</div>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Alisaie

-- Th...As─ Ugh... <gasp>

Aymeric

-- Is that...?

Thancred

-- Alisaie, Alphinaud's twin sister. She ran afoul of the Warriors of Darkness.

-- I had been tracking them since the ceremony at Falcon's Nest. Little did I know I was not the only one. Evidently she had learned of their activities and attempted to shadow them on her own. Poorly. I rescued her in the Twelveswood, and together we fled north. But though I made every effort to cover our tracks, they caught up with us on the Ishgardian border, and in the ensuing struggle, Alisaie took an arrow to the shoulder.
'Twas only after we had made good our escape that I realized it was poisoned...

Alphinaud

-- Thank you for coming so quickly. And you, Ser Aymeric.

Aymeric

-- Think nothing of it. How is she?

Alphinaud

-- We have done all we can for now. Although the immediate danger has passed, the poison yet lingers in her blood...

-- We came to Eorzea together, hoping to bring salvation to the realm our grandfather gave his life to protect. But when confronted with the bitter realities of its politics and its petty powermongers, she was driven to anger─and to doubt. She refused to become embroiled in what she termed Eorzea's “squabbles,” and distanced herself from the Scions. Though she remained hopeful of a brighter future, she would walk her own path. Would that it had not been so perilous...

-- For all our differences, she is as dedicated as any Scion to the salvation of Eorzea. But more than that, she is my sister...To be reunited with her, only to lose her forever... Gods, even to speak the words...

Aymeric

-- Take heart, Master Alphinaud. She will be attended by our most skilled chirurgeons.

-- Bear Mistress Leveilleur to the infirmary at once. Apprise Captain Whitecape of the situation, and inform him that she is to be treated as my personal charge.

Alisaie

-- Alphinaud... Is the Warrior of Light... Is she with you? D-Don't go...there is something I must say...

-- The Warriors of Darkness are in league with the Ascians... Slaughtering the primals is but the first step in their plan...They make for Xelphatol to bring about Garuda's summoning... And to kill her... You must... You must stop them...

Tataru

-- I...I shall inform the others at once!

Aymeric

-- Master Thancred─I would ask that you accompany Mistress Leveilleur to the infirmary. Your knowledge of her injuries may well prove useful in determining her treatment.

Thancred

-- Of course.
</div>

>> <b class="text-red-500">Apprise</b> Captain Whitecape of the situation, and inform him that she is to be treated as my personal charge.
>>
>
> apprise  .v. 通知；报告
>
>> The Warriors of Darkness are <b class="text-red-500">in league with</b> the Ascians...
>>
>
> in league with  与……联盟：与某人或某事物合作或勾结，通常指不道德或不合法的行为。
>
> * The corrupt official was in league with the drug traffickers. 那个腐败的官员与毒贩勾结。

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- However much we may change and grow apart...some bonds are unbreakable.

Aymeric

-- Though the fates afforded us the time to share our long-delayed drink, 'twould seem the rest of my wine cellar will have to wait. As I am constantly reminded, there is no rest for the righteous.

Alphinaud

-- Surely, surely they won't let her... <sigh> Yes, yes, I know. We must trust in Captain Whitecape and his chirurgeons. Did they not bring Estinien back from the very brink of death? ...I am uncomfortably reminded of how he mocked me for praying at his bedside for days on end. What say you, my friend? Shall we turn our attention to a matter whose conclusion we yet have the power to influence?
</div>

>> Though the fates afforded us the time to share our long-delayed drink,
>>
>
>> Did they not bring Estinien back from the very brink of death?
>>
>
>> I am uncomfortably reminded of how he mocked me for praying at his bedside for <b class="text-red-500">days on end</b>.
>>
>
> days on end  连续几天：表示持续很多天的意思，通常用于描述某个事件或活动持续了很长时间。
>
> * He has been working on this project for days on end. 他已经连续几天一直在做这个项目了。

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Now that the excitement of recent days has given way to some semblance of new normality, Ser Aymeric de Borel, fresh from his appointment as lord speaker of the House of Lords, has extended to you a formal invitation to dine with him at his estate. It would seem that your long-overdue drink with the lord commander is at last at hand--should you so desire.

The evening at Borel Manor surpasses all expectation. In between several courses of the finest cuisine you have ever tasted, you and Ser Aymeric discuss subjects great and small. The conversation flows as smoothly as the wine, and for the first time in ages, you feel at peace. Yet all good things must come to an end, and this respite is no exception, for when a House Fortemps herald suddenly arrives and declares that Thancred has returned with an injured maiden who may not live through the night, you know what you must do.

The maiden is revealed to be none other than Alisaie, Alphinaud's twin sister, who had long ago decided to part ways with her brother. Thancred explains that after tracking the Warriors of Darkness for some time, he discovered that she too had attempted to learn more of the enigmatic adventurers. Alas, her efforts were rather less subtle than his, and Thancred was forced to spirit her away to Ishgard. Struck by a poisoned arrow as they fled, Alisaie now teeters on the brink of death, but before being passed into the care of the chirurgeons, she musters the strength to warn you of Garuda's imminent summoning in Xelphatol─and of the primal's planned death at the hands of the Warriors of Darkness.

Realizing that he can do naught else for his sister, Alphinaud places his faith in Captain Whitecape and bids you join him in addressing a matter whose conclusion you may yet influence. The Warriors of Darkness are conspiring with the Ascians to goad the Ixal into summoning their patron deity, and only you have the power to stop them.
</div>

>> Now that the excitement of recent days has given way to some <b class="text-red-500">semblance</b> of new <b class="text-red-500">normality</b>, Ser Aymeric de Borel, fresh from his appointment as lord speaker of the House of Lords, has extended to you a formal invitation to dine with him at his estate.
>>
>
> semblance  .n. 表象，假象；外观，外貌；（情况或性质的）相似之处，类似；幽灵，幻影
>
> normality  .n. 常态；
>
>> The evening at Borel Manor surpasses all expectation.
>>
>
>> In between several courses of the finest cuisine you have ever tasted, you and Ser Aymeric discuss subjects great and small.
>>
>
>> The conversation flows as smoothly as the wine, and for the first time in ages, you feel at peace.
>>
>
>> Alas, her efforts were rather less subtle than his, and Thancred was forced to spirit her away to Ishgard.
>>
>
>> Struck by a poisoned arrow as they fled, Alisaie now <b class="text-red-500">teeters</b> on the brink of death, but before being passed into the care of the chirurgeons, she <b class="text-red-500">musters</b> the strength to warn you of Garuda's <b class="text-red-500">imminent</b> summoning in Xelphatol─and of the primal's planned death at the hands of the Warriors of Darkness.
>>
>
> teeter  .v. 摇晃，摇摇欲坠；举棋不定
>
> muster  .v. 寻求，聚集（支持、勇气等）；召集，（尤指士兵）集合；
>
> imminent  .adj. 即将发生的，临近的；
>
>> Realizing that he can do naught else for his sister, Alphinaud places his faith in Captain Whitecape and bids you join him in addressing a matter whose conclusion you may yet influence.
>>

## Shadows of the First🎧

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- As Alphinaud and many others know all too well, there is no rest for the righteous.

Aymeric

-- Though I am not sure I grasp the full implications of her words, I know we dare not ignore them.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- Warriors of Darkness? Xelphatol? What is this all about?

Alphinaud

-- So the Warriors of Darkness and the Ascians are conspiring to bring about Garuda's summoning, that they might put her to the sword... Then when we first encountered them in Loth ast Gnath...when they were confronting Ravana... Gods, has this been their aim all along?

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- What do you intend to do, Master Alphinaud?

Alphinaud

-- There is much and more I do not understand, but I know this: a primal summoning cannot be ignored. Alisaie risked her life to uncover this plot, and we squander her gift at our peril. Luna, will you accompany me to Xelphatol and help me stop the Ixal's ritual?

Aymeric

-- Given that Ishgard shares a border with the Ixali homeland, we have a vested interest in the outcome of this ritual. We have been willing to suffer the beastmen's intrusions into Coerthan lands to a point, but the summoning of a primal is an escalation we cannot abide. You shall have our fastest airship, Master Alphinaud. The mountains of Xelphatol are not easily traversed, and this endeavor demands all haste.

Alphinaud

-- The gesture is most appreciated, Ser Aymeric─but I fear an aerial approach is destined to fail. This is their homeland, after all, and Ixali dirigibles are not to be underestimated. No, experience tells me the only conceivable approach is by land. I believe it would be wiser to cross into Xelphatol by way of the mountain pass east of Camp Dragonhead.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- In that case, I shall send instructions for a contingent of the camp's knights to be placed at your disposal. They will secure you safe passage through the mountains, and escort you thence to Xelphatol. Though my men are unqualified to confront a primal, they are more than capable of contending with the Ixal.

Alphinaud

-- We should be glad of their assistance, Lord Edmont.

Aymeric

-- In the event Mistress Alisaie regains consciousness, we will share with you any additional information she may provide. May the Fury watch over and keep you safe.

Alphinaud

-- Then let us be off. We can procure any additional supplies we require in Camp Dragonhead.

Count Edmont de Fortemps

-- I shall send word to the acting commander at Camp Dragonhead of your imminent arrival. Who knows...this may even spur me to nominate a permanent replacement. I have put off the task for far too long...
</div>

>> Alisaie risked her life to uncover this plot, and we squander her gift <b class="text-red-500">at our peril</b>.
>>
>
> peril  .n. 巨大的危险，危难；（某活动或行为的）危险，问题
>
> at one's peril  冒着危险：表示做某事会带来严重后果或危险。
>
> * We ignore the warnings at our peril. 我们忽视警告就是冒着危险。
>
>> Given that Ishgard shares a border with the Ixali homeland, we have a <b class="text-red-500">vested</b> interest in the outcome of this ritual.
>>
>
> vested  .adj. 既定的；穿着衣服（尤指祭服）的；
>
>> We have been willing to suffer the beastmen's intrusions into Coerthan lands to a point, but the summoning of a primal is an <b class="text-red-500">escalation</b> we cannot abide.
>>
>
> escalation  .n. 迅速增加，上涨；升级，恶化
>
>> This is their homeland, after all, and Ixali <b class="text-red-500">dirigibles</b> are not to be underestimated.
>>
>
> dirigible  .n. 飞船
>
>> I have <b class="text-red-500">put off</b> the task for far too long...
>>
>
> put off  推迟：将某事推迟到以后的时间。
>
> * I had to put off the meeting until next week. 我不得不把会议推迟到下周。

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Alphinaud

-- Have you everything you require, then? Excellent. The entrance to the pass is north of Natalan and due east of Camp Dragonhead. Though it is normally guarded by a score of Ixali warriors, I have been informed that House Fortemps knights have already dispatched them. The enemy's gate lies open. We need but walk through.

-- Beyond this gate lies the trail which will lead us into Xelphatol. According to my map, it looks to be a relatively straightforward route, albeit one through exceedingly dangerous territory.

Earnest House Fortemps Knight

-- We have everything in hand here, miss! No need to worry! And may I say what an honor it is to work with you, miss!

Doughty House Fortemps Knight

-- Beyond lies Ixali territory. We lower our guard at our peril.

Steadfast House Fortemps Knight

-- Mistress Kali, Master Alphinaud. As you can see, the gate is ours. Be advised that our scouts are reporting increased activity around the First Mountain. Simply put, they are up to something, and don't want anyone interfering. We stand ready to escort you to Xelphatol and aid you as you see fit.

Alphinaud

-- The enemy will be thick on the ground. Upon arriving, let us advance with care as we search for the site of the summoning ritual. If the gods are good, we should only have to contend with the Ixal─but if they are not, we may be forced to do battle with the Warriors of Darkness...

Steadfast House Fortemps Knight

-- I won't lie to you: the trail will be hellish. But stick close and we'll see you safely through.

Alphinaud

-- Come, my friend, let us make for Xelphatol!
</div>

>> <b class="text-red-500">Doughty</b> House Fortemps Knight
>>
>
> doughty  .adj. 勇敢强悍的；坚强的；勇猛的

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Xelphatol (Dungeon)

Forced to flee the Black Shroud for fear of the elementals and their boundless wrath, the Ixal settled the windswept mountains of Xelphatol more than five hundred and fifty years ago. Since that day, they have labored tirelessly to eke out an existence in these harsh and unforgiving lands, slowly but surely expanding their dominion over the entire region. Yet the Ixal have never forgotten that which was once denied them, and so they seek divine intervention once more--to summon Garuda and beseech her strike down their enemies. In the shadow of the First Mountain, the ritual nears completion, and only you and your comrades can hope to deliver the realm from destruction.

---------------------------------
Nuzal Hueloc: Fly from this sacred place, featherless ones will!
Nuzal Hueloc: Fly free, we will...
Dotoli Ciloc: Sacred winds, come forth!
Dotoli Ciloc: One with the wind, we become...
Tozol Huatotl: Intrude upon sacred ground, who dares!? Pay with lives, featherless ones will!
Tozol Huatotl: For the eyes, go! For the eyes! Squaaak!
Tozol Huatotl: Upon sliver of Her glory, we now call! Squaaawk! Squaaawk!
Tozol Huatotl: For the eyes, go! For the eyes! Squaaak!
Tozol Huatotl: O Lady of the Vortex! In Your name, our lives we give...
---------------------------------
</div>

>> Forced to flee the Black Shroud for fear of the elementals and their boundless wrath, the Ixal settled the <b class="text-red-500">windswept</b> mountains of Xelphatol more than five hundred and fifty years ago.
>>
>
> windswept   .adj. 被风吹的；暴露在风中的；风刮的
>
>> Since that day, they have labored tirelessly to <b class="text-red-500">eke out</b> an existence in these harsh and unforgiving lands, slowly but surely expanding their dominion over the entire region.
>>
>
> eke out  补充不足，弥补缺陷；节约使用，使某物持续更久

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Alphinaud

-- So they were unable to see the ritual to its completion... Then Garuda is no longer a threat, and whatever the Ascians and the Warriors of Darkness were planning has come to naught... But we should not tarry. The knights have secured our path to safety.

Ardbert (Warrior of Darkness)

-- Well, well... What do we have here? You'd better not have killed the primal without us!

Alphinaud

-- You

Renda (Ranger of Darkness)

-- Wait, I know you! Still walking, I see. I could have sworn my aim was true...

Branden (Knight of Darkness)

-- Just what is your game? Leading us the long way, so these fools could step in and claim our prize?

Lamitt (Devout of Darkness)

-- Now, now. Let's not make hasty accusations. By the look of things, the ritual was proceeding as planned. We arrived at the appointed hour. 'Twas they who erred.

Alphinaud

-- It is hopeless. We cannot face them all...

Renda (Ranger of Darkness)

-- Do mine ears deceive? A boy! So that's the way of it. Twins! You had me worried for a moment there. Know that I will happily make it quicker for you...if you just stand still.

Ardbert (Warrior of Darkness)

-- Enough, J'rhoomale. We wouldn't want to upset the man in white with any unnecessary bloodshed, now would we?

-- You've been awfully busy since we were kind enough to spare your lives.

Alphinaud

-- While you were idly consorting with the Ascians, you mean? Seven hells! What could you possibly hope to achieve!?

Ardbert (Warrior of Darkness)

-- Should I explain it to you? Very well. Consider it a reward of sorts for beating us here.

-- You know the tale of Hydaelyn and Zodiark, I take it. Of the great sundering, and the reflections it created?

Alphinaud

-- Across ten and three they were divided. Reflections of the Source, each possessed of shards of Light and Dark...

Ardbert (Warrior of Darkness)

-- Just so. One of those reflections─the one nearest to the Source─is our home. And we were the heroes blessed with Her Light. But not all worlds hold Light and Dark in equal measure. In ours, the power of Light was greater by far. So the Ascians who once threatened our home were no match, and they fell before us, one after another, till none were left. Victory, we thought...

-- ...And then came the Light─a flood of pure, blinding radiance, annihilating shadow and color and life itself<. Ere long, it will consume our world, leaving naught in its wake but blank perfection.

Alphinaud

-- That─ That cannot be! Do you honestly expect us to believe such a story!?

Ardbert (Warrior of Darkness)

-- Believe what you like. But it has happened before, on a world far removed from ours. The Thirteenth, which was swallowed by the Dark, and transformed into what you call the void. Unchallenged Light would condemn us to a similar fate. And so we joined hands with our former enemies, and with their aid came here...to the Source. For there is but one way to restore the balance and save our home: the Ardor. Calamitous destruction with the power to break down the barriers between planes, and see our worlds rejoined.

Alphinaud

-- You would doom our world to save your own!? What would even become of us? Of you?

Ardbert (Warrior of Darkness)

-- Enough. I tire of talking. You know our cause. You know what is at stake. We are prepared to do whatever it takes! Are you?

Alphinaud

-- If there is aught you would say, say it. Otherwise, begone. You have no friends here.
</div>

>> But not all worlds hold Light and Dark in equal measure.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Steadfast House Fortemps Knight

-- Well fought, well fought indeed! Lord Edmont will be pleased to learn that everything went according to plan.

-- 'Twas a pleasure to work with you, miss. I pray the Fury grants me the opportunity to do so again.

Doughty House Fortemps Knight

-- At last I can breathe easy...As accustomed as we are to fight the Ixal, it isn't every day that we change into their stronghold.

Earnest House Fortemps Knight

-- All quiet here, miss! Nary a peep from the birdmen.

-- Seems our work here is done. No reason to linger any longer than we have to, eh?

Alphinaud

-- All things considered, we should be grateful to have survived that encounter. ...Do you think it could be true? That to save their world, they must bring ruin to ours? No. No, it matters not. Such wanton destruction is beyond justification. Whatever their reasons, they must be stopped. The sacrifice, the loss--it ends here.
</div>

>> Lord Edmont will be pleased to learn that everything went according to plan.
>>
>
>> No, it matters not. Such <b class="text-red-500">wanton</b> destruction is beyond justification.
>>
>
> wanton  .adj. 嬉戏的；繁茂的；荒唐的；无节制的；放纵的

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Regardless of whether or not the Warriors of Darkness intend to kill Garuda, the fact remains that a primal summoning cannot be ignored, and should be prevented if at all possible. After some discussion, it is decided that you and Alphinaud will enter the Ixali homeland of Xelphatol by means of a mountain pass east of Camp Dragonhead. To see you to your destination with all haste, Lord Edmont will order a contingent of knights to secure the entrance and escort you as far as they are able. With the details settled, Alphinaud invites you to accompany him to Camp Dragonhead, where you may procure any additional supplies prior to departing for Xelphatol.

In Camp Dragonhead, you are informed that the House Fortemps knights took the initiative to launch an attack on the Ixali forces guarding the entrance to the mountain pass, rendering it safe well in advance of your arrival. The enemy's gate lies open, and you and Alphinaud need only walk through.

The knights salute as you approach and state that their scouts have observed increased activity around the First Mountain. Anticipating heavy resistance, Alphinaud reminds you of the need to advance with care as you search for the site of the summoning ritual. If the gods are good, you will only have to deal with some few patrols, but if not, you may be forced to do battle with the Warriors of Darkness once more...

In the shadow of the First Mountain, you confront the Ixali occultist overseeing the summoning ritual, and in a pitched battle manage to lay him low. Having put an end to the beastmen's ambitions, you prepare to return to Coerthas.

Before you can make good your escape, you find yourselves face–to–face with the Warriors of Darkness. Rather than engaging you in battle a second time, their leader proceeds to set out their reason for consorting with the Ascians.

He claims that he and his comrades hail from another world─a reflection of the Source─in which the power of Light is far greater than that of Dark. There, they easily bested their Ascian counterparts, only to discover that they had upset the primordial balance in so doing, triggering a flood of Light which now threatens to consume all that they sought to protect. If nothing is done, their world will soon give way to a void...as did the Thirteenth, when the Dark rose up unopposed. And so, to prevent this fate, they joined hands with the Ascians and came to the Source. Here, they intend to bring about another Umbral Calamity, for only through such unbridled destruction may the barriers between planes be broken down, and the First and the Source made one.

Incredulous, Alphinaud demands further answers, but the Warrior of Darkness will say no more, declaring in parting that he and his comrades will do whatever it takes to see your worlds rejoined.

To what ends must we labor for the sake of those we love? Is there any cause so noble that it may be used to justify any deed? Though he is shaken by their words, Alphinaud's resolve remains firm. Regardless of their reasons, the Warriors of Darkness cannot be allowed to achieve their goals. The sacrifice, the loss─it ends here.
</div>

>> Regardless of whether or not the Warriors of Darkness intend to kill Garuda, the fact remains that a primal summoning cannot be ignored, and should be prevented if at all possible.
>>
>
>> To see you to your destination with all haste, Lord Edmont will order a contingent of knights to secure the entrance and escort you as far as they are able.
>>
>
>> In Camp Dragonhead, you are informed that the House Fortemps knights <b class="text-red-500">took the initiative to</b> launch an attack on the Ixali forces guarding the entrance to the mountain pass, rendering it safe well in advance of your arrival.
>>
>
> take the initiative to  主动采取行动：自愿或积极地采取行动，而不是等待别人采取行动。
>
>> The knights salute as you approach and state that their scouts have observed increased activity around the First Mountain.
>>
>
>> Anticipating heavy resistance, Alphinaud reminds you of the need to advance with care as you search for the site of the summoning ritual.
>>
>
>> In the shadow of the First Mountain, you confront the Ixali <b class="text-red-500">occultist</b> overseeing the summoning ritual, and in a pitched battle manage to lay him low.
>>
>
> occultist  .n. 神秘学者；术士
>
> pitched battle   激烈战斗：对抗双方在近距离战斗中相互交锋。
>
> * The two armies engaged in a pitched battle that lasted for hours. 两军进行了一场持续数小时的激烈战斗。
>
>> Rather than engaging you in battle a second time, their leader proceeds to <b class="text-red-500">set out</b> their reason for consorting with the Ascians.
>>
>
> set out  安排或展示某物：以特定方式安排或展示某物。
>
> * She set out the dishes on the table for dinner. 她在餐桌上摆放好了餐具。
>
>> There, they easily bested their Ascian counterparts, only to discover that they had upset the <b class="text-red-500">primordial</b> balance in so doing, triggering a flood of Light which now threatens to consume all that they sought to protect.
>>
>
> primordial  .adj. 原始的；根本的；原生的
>
>> Incredulous, Alphinaud demands further answers, but the Warrior of Darkness will say no more, declaring in parting that he and his comrades will do whatever it takes to see your worlds rejoined.
>>
>
>> To what ends must we labor for the sake of those we love?
>>
>
>> Though he is shaken by their words, Alphinaud's resolve remains firm.
>>

## Two sides of a Coin🎧

<div class="border-4 p-6">
System Guide

-- Alphinaud would like nothing more than to get out of the snow.

Alphinaud

-- Forgive me, this is neither the time nor the place for idle introspection. The knights can apprise Lord Edmont of our success, and we the lord commander. More importantly, I should like to see if my sister's condition has improved...You may take a moment for yourself if you wish. I will be at the Congregation.

-- Ah, there you are. Shall we make our report?

Aymeric

-- It brings me joy to see you safely returned to us, Luna. What news from Xelphatol?

-- ...Then we were not too late. On behalf of Ishgard, I offer you my deepest thanks. As for we who remained behind─Mistress Y'shtola has been tending to Mistress Alisaie in your absence...and I am pleased to report that she has regained consciousness. I imagine you have many questions, especially given your recent encounter with the Warriors of Darkness. I know I do. Come, let me show you to her room. Do not worry, her condition is much improved. She is a resilient one, much like her brother.
</div>

>> I imagine you have many questions, especially given your recent encounter with the Warriors of Darkness.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Alphinaud

-- Alisaie! How are you feeling?

Alisaie

-- Well enough, Brother, thanks to the kindness of our hosts.

-- When they told me you had departed for Xelphatol, I found that I could rest. The outcome seemed a mere formality, as did your safe return. Thank you, my friend.

Y'shtola

-- I take it your mission was a success?

Thancred

-- ...As if we needed any further confirmation that they are in league with the Ascians. ...But to save another world? I think not.

Alphinaud

-- I too thought his story fanciful at first. But it is possible there may be a kernel of truth in all of this. At the very least, none of his claims contradict the Word's account.

Y'shtola

-- You were following these people, Alisaie. Why?

Alisaie

-- During my travels, I had oft enjoyed tales of the Scions and their exploits. But after a time, I began to hear whispers of a gifted, and theretofore unknown, band of adventurers. Adventurers who had supposedly sworn to travel the realm slaying primals in the Scions' stead.

Alphinaud

-- The Warriors of Darkness... And in the course of investigating these rumors, you stumbled upon the Ascians' involvement.

Alisaie

-- Yes. Exactly.

Aymeric

-- Forgive me, but if these Warriors of Darkness mean to bring about another Calamity, to what end do they hunt primals?

Alisaie

-- To prompt an escalation. To deepen the beast tribes' feelings of helplessness and despair, and thereby drive them to summon ever more powerful gods. And lest we forget, these events do not occur in isolation. With their patron deities being slain left and right, the news of man's victory over Nidhogg must surely have sown panic in the minds of the beastmen. 'Tis no wonder they wish to defend themselves.

Aymeric

-- Power answered with greater power, death with more death. A vicious cycle fueled by fear and hatred. I know its like all too well.

Alisaie

-- Indeed. The Ascians sow discord and desperation, and the Warriors of Darkness reap the harvest. And so it continues. Yet that is not the extent of their ambitions. The Ascian himself observed that once the powerless realize that the old gods have failed them, they will have little recourse but to look to a new one.

Y'shtola

-- ...We cannot let that happen.

Thancred

-- It should come as no surprise, but Alisaie and I have uncovered evidence that the Ascians have been manipulating certain parties to ensure that a constant stream of crystals flows into the hands of the beast tribes. If we sever these supply lines, we should at least be able to slow the escalation.

Y'shtola

-- Agreed. Krile and I shall journey to Xelphatol and learn what we can of the Ixal's source.

Aymeric

-- Hm. Then I, for my part, pledge to lead a similar investigation into the origin of the Gnath's supply.

Alphinaud

-- Ser Aymeric?

Aymeric

-- As a member of the Eorzean Alliance, Ishgard is honor-bound to play an active role in maintaining the security of the realm. You might also say that I have some personal motivation, given the Ascians' dealings with my father. However, I make no secret of the fact that my knowledge of primal beings is scant at best. As such, I should be most grateful if one of your order were to assist me.

Thancred

-- Allow me, Ser Aymeric. I have dealt with the Gnath before.

Alphinaud

-- Let us consult with Urianger, then. Given his dedication to the study of primal beings, I should be surprised if he could not tell us something of value.

Alisaie

-- Allow me to accompany you, Brother. And before you think to refuse, know that I am not the girl I once was. I shall not be a burden─you have my word.

Alphinaud

-- But Alisaie, you...

-- ...You are more than welcome. After all, it was you who set us upon this path.

Tataru

-- Wait a minute! I'm afraid I can't allow you to leave just yet─not until you try on the new outfit I prepared for you!
</div>

>> Adventurers who had <b class="text-red-500">supposedly</b> sworn to travel the realm slaying primals in the Scions' stead.
>>
>
> supposedly  .adv. 据说，据传
>
>> Forgive me, but if these Warriors of Darkness mean to bring about another Calamity, to what end do they hunt primals?
>>
>
>> With their patron deities being slain left and right, the news of man's victory over Nidhogg must surely have sown panic in the minds of the beastmen.
>>

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Alphinaud

-- ...To think that the three of us plumbed the depths of the coils and confronted Bahamut himself. Had I not been there, I would struggle to believe it. Shortly after we parted ways, I heard that she had taken to the road on her own, apparently on a journey of self-discovery. Precisely where to I never learned, though I suspect that was by design. ...So she enjoyed hearing tales of our exploits, did she? Hmm...

Alisaie

-- My apologies for keeping you waiting.

-- Right, then. Shall we be off?

Alphinaud

-- Tataru never ceases to impress... Though, for a moment, I feared she might furnish you with an identical outfit.

Alisaie

-- Praise the Twelve she did not! Mother and Father were rather too fond of making us wear matching clothes. Do you remember that time at the Studium when that girl of yours crept up behind me in the hall and whispered─

Alphinaud

-- Sister, please! She was not my─ Ahem, can we not have this conversation in front of the Warrior of Light!?

Alisaie

-- So be it. Another time, perhaps. To be honest, Luna, I wasn't planning on seeking you out just yet. When I set forth on my journey, I did so with grand ambitions. As you may recall, I promised I would not disappoint you... I pray you will forgive me if I do.

Me

-- (Option 1) A pleasure to have you with us.
-- (Option 2) I've been meaning to ask about the carriage...
-- (Option 3) Welcome to the fight.

Alphinaud

-- Ah, yes, the carriage that so fortuitously arrived to spirit us away from Ul'dah after the banquet. The driver informed me that I had my sister to thank for his presence in Ul'dah. How did you know to send help?

Alisaie

-- Oh, drunken Brass Blades are even less discreet than sober ones. Unfortunately, by the time I learned of the plot, it was too late to do anything more. Frankly, I'm still amazed Bremondt managed to find you.

Alphinaud

-- New garments aside, I must say that you seem different─more...resolute than when last we met. You have the look of a woman who is ready to fight for the future of Eorzea.

Alisaie

-- To the extent of my abilities, perhaps, but I have no delusions of grandeur. Nor will I pretend to have “found myself” or any such thing. I am here today because I would regret it if I weren't. That is all.

Alphinaud

-- Fair enough. Let us depart for the Waking Sands, then, and see if Urianger can be of assistance.
</div>

>> Mother and Father were rather too fond of making us wear matching clothes.
>>
>
>> Oh, drunken Brass Blades are even less <b class="text-red-500">discreet</b> than <b class="text-red-500">sober</b> ones.
>>
>
> discreet  .adj. 谨慎的，周到的；小巧的，不引人注意的
>
> sober  .adj. 未喝醉的，清醒的；严肃的，冷静的；素淡的，朴素的
>
>> To the extent of my abilities, perhaps, but I have no delusions of <b class="text-red-500">grandeur</b>.
>>
>
> grandeur   .n. 壮丽，雄伟；（社会地位的）高贵

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Alphinaud

-- Urianger─apologies for calling upon you unannounced.

Urianger

-- Why, Master Alphinaud. Would that the Scholar had seen fit to grant me knowledge of thy coming. What bringeth thee and thine here this day?

Alphinaud

-- The Warriors of Darkness have returned. Pray allow us to explain...

Urianger

-- ...I too have heard tales in recent days of primal beings rising up only to be cast down by forces unknown. Alas, as thou didst observe, this serveth but to spur the beast tribes to pursue their goals with redoubled fervor.

Alphinaud

-- We have two objectives at this time: to identify and remove the source of the beast tribes' crystals, and to take direct action to prevent any further summoning rituals from reaching completion.

-- The second is easier said than done, of course. While we were fortunate enough to learn of the Ixal's plans before they came to fruition, I should be surprised if the Warriors of Darkness and the Ascians did not have similar designs elsewhere of which we have no knowledge.

Urianger

-- Thou wert wise to come hither, for this very day did I receive tidings most troubling from across the Strait of Merlthor. O'Ghomoro stirreth, and there are whispers that the Lord of Crags neareth his return. Mere rumors, mark thou─but in light of thine own discoveries...

-- ...Thou canst ill afford to turn a deaf ear to their claims.

Alphinaud

-- Aye─we must ascertain the truth of the matter for ourselves. Let us consult with the Maelstrom forces stationed at Camp Overlook, Luna.

-- Thank you for your counsel, Urianger. Pray inform us should you learn aught else.

Urianger

-- I shall.

Alisaie

-- If I may, Brother─ Urianger, is there anything else you would like to say?

Alphinaud

-- Alisaie?

Alisaie

-- ...If not, then never mind. I only ask because you are normally rather more...verbose.

-- Nothing to add? Very well. Ere we depart, I wish to make a request. The Warriors of Darkness spoke of how the Ardor had the power to “break down the barriers between planes,” that our worlds might be rejoined. I would ask that you research this for us. Being nowhere near as well-read as you, I'm sure I wouldn't know where to begin. That said, I have heard tell of a promising tome: The Gerun Oracles. Mayhap you could start there.

Urianger

-- ...By thy leave.

Alisaie

-- Camp Overlook, was it? Very well.

Urianger

-- We shall speak anon, Luna. I prithee attend Master Alphinaud and Mistress Alisaie.
</div>

>> We have two objectives at this time: to identify and remove the source of the beast tribes' crystals, and to take direct action to prevent any further summoning rituals from reaching completion.
>>
>
>> The second is easier said than done, of course.
>>
>
>> While we were fortunate enough to learn of the Ixal's plans before they came to fruition, I should be surprised if the Warriors of Darkness and the Ascians did not have similar designs elsewhere of which we have no knowledge.
>>
>
>> Aye─we must ascertain the truth of the matter for ourselves.
>>
>
>> Being nowhere near as well-read as you, I'm sure I wouldn't know where to begin.
>>
>
>> I <b class="text-red-500">prithee</b> attend Master Alphinaud and Mistress Alisaie.
>>
>
> prithee  （表达礼貌的请求）请（应该是古英语）

<div class="border-4 p-6">
Alphinaud

-- Come, let us speak with Commander Bloeidin and see if there is any truth to these rumors concerning Titan's return.

Alisaie

-- <sniff> <sniff> ...That had better be the sulphur.

Bloeidin

-- Seven hells, at this rate, I'll have to appeal to Maelstrom Command for reinforcements... Hm? Whatever it is, we don't want any.

-- Well, fancy that! Just when my kobold problems look like coming to a head, the Scions of the Seventh Dawn turn up, itching to pitch in! Bloody brilliant timing is what it is! Right, then─let's get to it!

----------------------------------

Alphinaud

-- (Is it just my imagination, or is Alisaie staring daggers at me?)

Alisaie

-- <sniff> <sniff> (...I know it was him.)
</div>

>> let us speak with Commander Bloeidin and see if there is any truth to these rumors concerning Titan's return.
>>
>
>> ...That had better be the <b class="text-red-500">sulphur</b>.
>>
>
> sulphur  .n. 硫，硫磺；硫黄色，黄绿色；粉蝶科蝶，美洲粉蝶；硫火（从前认为是构成地狱之火和闪电的物质）
>
>> Seven hells, <b class="text-red-500">at this rate</b>, I'll have to <b class="text-red-500">appeal to</b> Maelstrom Command for reinforcements...
>>
>
> at this rate 以这个速度；按照这种趋势
>
> * If we continue at this rate, we will finish the project ahead of schedule. 如果我们按照这个速度继续下去，我们将提前完成这个项目。
>
> appeal to   吸引，引起兴趣：产生吸引力或引起兴趣的行为或特征。
>
> * The new advertising campaign is designed to appeal to a younger audience. 这个新的广告宣传活动旨在吸引年轻观众。
>
>> Just when my kobold problems look like coming to a head, the Scions of the Seventh Dawn turn up, <b class="text-red-500">itching to pitch in</b>!
>>
>
> itching to  渴望做某事：非常想要做某事，尤指对某事有强烈的兴趣或欲望。
>
> pitch in  齐心协力，共同努力：指大家一起努力，共同完成某项任务或工作。
>
>> Is it just my imagination, or is Alisaie <b class="text-red-500">staring daggers at</b> me?
>>
>
> staring daggers at  就是带着不友善的目光盯着

<div class="border-4 p-6">
A few brief moments standing in the snow is more than enough for Alphinaud to realize that this is neither the time nor the place to think deeply on recent events. While the House Fortemps knights return to Camp Dragonhead and prepare a report, he would head for the Congregation both to brief Ser Aymeric and to see if his sister's condition has at all improved.

Ser Aymeric escorts you and Alphinaud to Alisaie's room, where Thancred, Y'shtola, and Tataru are already waiting. There, Alphinaud is relieved to find that his sister has regained consciousness and is well on her way to a full recovery. Per Y'shtola's request, you proceed to give your account of all that occurred in Xelphatol, prompting a debate as to the credibility of the Warrior of Darkness's claims. When all have had their say, however, the Scions agree only that their foes' attempts to spur the beast tribes to summon ever stronger primals cannot be allowed to continue.

Thancred then reveals that he and Alisaie have uncovered evidence suggesting that the Ascians are behind a plot to furnish several beast tribes with a steady stream of crystals. On the understanding that severing their supply lines would do much to slow the escalation, it is decided that the others─Ser Aymeric included─will attempt to determine the Ixal and the Gnath's source. You and Alphinaud, meanwhile, will visit Urianger to find out if his wealth of knowledge concerning primal beings might be put to good use. When Alisaie subsequently insists that she be allowed to accompany you, Alphinaud seems poised to refuse her, only to relent in the face of her steely-eyed determination. All that remains is to wait for her to finish changing into her new outfit─yet another original creation of Tataru's fecund imagination.

After a brief moment of reflection─and a missed opportunity to hear an anecdote about Alphinaud's boyhood indiscretions─you and the twins are finally ready to depart. With luck, your visit to the Waking Sands will prove fruitful.

To your delight, Urianger appears to be well aware of the Warriors of Darkness and their recent activities, and he provides you with a promising new lead: the kobolds of Vylbrand are rumored to be on the verge of summoning Titan once more. Satisfied, you and Alphinaud prepare to depart for Camp Overlook in outer La Noscea, but your departure is delayed by Alisaie, who requests that Urianger look into some of the specific claims made by the Warriors of Darkness. She suggests that The Gerun Oracles may hold the answers─though the frosty manner in which she addresses the scholar raises a host of other questions...

In Camp Overlook, you find a grim Commander Bloeidin muttering to himself about the need for reinforcements. Upon learning of your intent, however, his face splits into a wide grin. It would seem that the Scions of the Seventh Dawn have arrived in Vylbrand in the nick of time.
</div>

>> A few brief moments standing in the snow is more than enough for Alphinaud to realize that this is neither the time nor the place to think deeply on recent events.
>>
>
>> While the House Fortemps knights return to Camp Dragonhead and prepare a report, he would head for the Congregation both to brief Ser Aymeric and to see if his sister's condition has at all improved.
>>
>
>> Per Y'shtola's request, you proceed to give your account of all that occurred in Xelphatol, prompting a debate as to the credibility of the Warrior of Darkness's claims.
>>
>
>> When all have had their say, however, the Scions agree only that their foes' attempts to spur the beast tribes to summon ever stronger primals cannot be allowed to continue.
>>
>
>> On the understanding that severing their supply lines would do much to slow the escalation, it is decided that the others─Ser Aymeric included─will attempt to determine the Ixal and the Gnath's source.
>>
>
>> You and Alphinaud, meanwhile, will visit Urianger to find out if his wealth of knowledge concerning primal beings might be put to good use.
>>
>
>> When Alisaie subsequently insists that she be allowed to accompany you, Alphinaud seems poised to refuse her, only to relent in the face of her steely-eyed determination.
>>
>
>> To your delight, Urianger appears to be well aware of the Warriors of Darkness and their recent activities, and he provides you with a promising new lead
>>
>
>> She suggests that The Gerun Oracles may hold the answers─though the frosty manner in which she addresses the scholar raises a host of other questions...
>>
>
>> Upon learning of your intent, however, his face splits into a wide grin.
>>

‍
